IDEALS    OF   LIFE                       I0g
to me. You got her. Where do I come in?" Doolittle further
typifies the Chinese humanist spirit by asking for five pounds and refusing Professor Higgins's ten pounds, for too much money would make him unhappy, and a true humanist wants money only to be happy and buy a little drink. In other words, Doolittle was a Confucianist and knew how to be happy and wanted only to be happy. Through this constant appeal to reasonableness, the Chinese have developed a capacity for compromise, which is the perfectly natural consequence of the Doctrine of the Golden Mean. When an English father is unable to decide whether to send his son to Cambridge or Oxford, he may end up by sending Mm to Birmingham. So when the son, starling out from London and arriving at Bletchley, changes neither to the east for Cambridge^ nor to the west for Oxford, but goes straight north to Birminghams he is merely carrying out the Doctrine of the Golden Mean. That road to Birmingham has certain merits. By going straight north he succeeds in offending neither Cambridge nor Oxford. If one understands this application of the Doctrine of the Golden Mean, one can understand the whole game of Chinese politics in the last thirty yearss and prophesy the outcome of any Chinese declaration of policy blindfold. One ceases to be frightened by its literary fireworks.
IV. TAOISM
But has Confucian humanism been sufficient for the Chinese people? It has and it has not. If it had completely satisfied man's instincts, there would have been no room for Taoism or Buddhism. The middle-class morality of Confucianism has worked wonderfully for the common people, both those who wear official buttons and those who kowtow to them.
But there are people who do not wear or kowtow to the official buttons. Man has a deeper nature in him which Confucianism does not quite touch. Confucianism, in the strict sense of the word, is too decorous, too reasonable, too correct. Man has a hidden desire to go about with dishevelled hair, which Confucianism does not quite permit. The man who