LITERARY    LIFE                       211
III. SCHOLARSHIP
Before we pass on to the non-classical literature, or literature of the imagination, achieved by obscure or unknown writers who broke through the classical tradition and wrote out of the gladness of their hearts and for the sheer delight of creation— in other words, before we pass on to those novels and dramas which constitute literature par excellence in the Western, sense, it is perhaps proper to examine the content of classical literature, the qualities of Chinese scholarship, and the life and education of that mass of educated men who feed on the people, moralize a lot and create nothing. What do these scholars write and what is their mental occupation?
China is a land of scholars, where scholars are the ruling class, and in times of peace, at least, the worship of scholarship has always been sedulously cultivated. This worship of scholarship has taken the form of a popular superstition that no paper bearing writing should be thrown about or used for indecent purposes, but should be collected and burned at schools or temples. In times of war the story is slightly different, for soldiers used to go into a scholar's house and either burn old rare editions as fuel, or blow their noses with them, or commit them to a general conflagration* Yet so stupendous was the literary activity of the nation that the more books the soldiers burned, the bigger the collections of books became.
In the Sui Dynasty, around the year 600, the imperial dynasty already counted 370,000 volumes. In the T'ang Dynasty the imperial collection numbered 208,000 volumes. In the year 1005, in the Sung Dynasty, the first encyclopaedia, consisting of 1,000 volumes, was compiled. The next great imperial collection, the Tunglo Tatien, collected under Emperor Yunglo (1403-1424), consisted of 22,877 books, in 11,995 volumes, of selected rare ancient works. In the Manchu Dynasty, the most statesmanlike act of Emperor Ch'ienlung was to make a thorough overhauling of extant books for the ostensible purpose of preserving them, but with the equally important purpose of destroying works that savoured of dissatisfaction with the alien regime, and he succeeded in