STORY   OF   THE    SINO-JAPANESE   WAR        389
is slightly tempered by the Necessity to Borrow. The great Democratic Powers can be counted upon to utilize this weapon —the economic weapon, their greatest—for maintaining their interests in China. Filthy lucre will then become the greatest bond of international friendship in the Far East.
The attitude, then, both of the Chinese toward the foreigners and of the foreigners in China toward the Chinese will be very interesting to watch. On the whole, I must say it will be a healthier attitude on both sides. On the Chinese side, there will be a new-found national pride, tempered by traditional Chinese sanity and restraint, and as I say, by the Necessity to Borrow. On the foreign side, there will be an attitude of desire to preserve certain old privileges, strongly tempered by genuine goodwill. China being happy with her own success, and the Democratic Powers being grateful to China for so weakening a Pacific rival, both sides will be pervaded by the spirit of generosity, for happy and grateful people can afford to be generous
For we must face the fact that China, fighting merely a war for national independence and liberation, will have inevitably fought for a much greater issue. She will have changed the balance of power in the Pacific and the Far 'East and, by forcing both China and Japan into financial ruin, will have created a situation in which the only parties that stand to profit by the new situation are Great Britain, France, the United States—and Russia.
I disagree with Chinese diplomats that China is fighting for the principle of sacred treaties; China is fighting for something more elementary than that, the defence of her home and hearth, of her national right to exist. Neither America, nor Great Britain, nor France, nor any other single power on earth in this decade is willing to fight for a sacred principle of justice or of sanctity of treaties; so why should the hard-headed heathen Chinese be expected to fight for an idealistic principle that so far as I know does not exist except in Heaven, and nobody has ever seen how Heaven is run? Suppose the foolish Chinese had decided to fight for the sanctity of the Briand-Kellogg Pact or the Washington Treaty at the beginning, and had in a few months seen that the other signatory powers had let us down.