SOCIAL    AND    POLITICAL    LIFE          igi
yet by definition exists by being shown to the public. It exists in the ether and yet can be heard, and sounds eminently respectable and solid. It is amenable, not to reason but to social convention. It protracts lawsuits, breaks up family fortunes, causes murders and suicides, and yet It often makes a man out of a renegade who has been insulted by his fellow-townsmen, and it is prized above aU earthly possessions. It Is more powerful than fate and favour, and more respected than the constitution. It often decides a military victory or defeats and can demolish a whole government ministry. It Is that hollow thing which men in China live by.
To confuse face with Western "honour" is to make a grievous error. Chinese girls used to die for face, if their bodies had been accidentally exposed to a man3 as some Western women were once willing to drown themselves for having an illegitimate child. And yet in the West, the man who is slapped on the cheek and does not offer a challenge for a duel is losing "honour" but not losing face. On the other hand, the ugly son of a taofaiy who goes to a sing-song girl's house, is insulted and returns with a company of police to order the arrest of the sing-song girl and the closing of the house, is getting "face," but we would hardly say he is guarding his "honour."
Battles have been lost and empires have been sacrificed because the generals were bargaining for some honorific titles or some inoffensive way of accepting defeat rather than proceeding according to military tactics. Hot controversies have raged and protracted legal battles have been fought, in which the wise arbiter knows that all the time nothing really prevents the parties from coming together except a nice way of getting out of it, or probably the proper wording of an apology. A general split a political party and changed the whole course of a revolution because he was publicly insulted by a fellow-worker. Men and women are willing to drudge all the summer In order to keep going a funeral celebration appropriate to the standing or face of the family, and old families on the decline are willing to go bankrupt and live in debt for life for the same reason.
Not to give a man face Is the utmost height of rudeness and is like throwing down a gauntlet to him in the West. Many officials attend between three and four dinners in a night and