MY COUNTRY 
AND MY PEOPLE 

by 

LIN YUTANG 


ILLUSTRATED 



WILLIAM HEINEMANN LTD. 


LONDON 


TORONTO 


FIRST FtJBLISHED FEBRUARY I936 
REPRINTED FEBRUARY, APRIL (twiCe), 
AUGUST, DECEMBER 1 936 


^MNTED in great BRITAIN AT 
THE WINDMILL PRESS, KINGSWOOD, SURREY 



Truth ^ does not depart from human nature. If 
what is regarded as truth departs from human 
nature, it may not he regarded as truth. 

— Confucius 




INTRODUCTION 


ONE of the most important movements in China to-day is the 
discovery of their own country by young Chinese intellectuals. 
A generation ago the most progressive of their fathers were 
beginning to feel a stirring discontent with their own country. 
They were conscious, indeed the consciousness was forced 
upon them, that China as she had been in the past was not able 
to meet the dangerous and aggressive modernity of the West. 
I do not mean the political modernity so much as the march 
of economic, educational and military events. These Chinese 
fathers, fathers of the present generation in China, were the 
real revolutionists. They forced out of existence the old dynastic 
rule, they changed with incredible speed the system of educa- 
tion, with indefatigable zeal they planned and set up a scheme 
of modern government. No ancient government under an 
emperor ever accomplished with more imperial speed such 
tremendous changes in so great a country. 

In this atmosphere of change, the present intellectual youth 
of China has grown up. Where the faiiiers imbibed the doctrine 
of Confucius and learned the classics and revolted against 
them, these young people have been battered by many forces 
of the new times. They have been taught something of science, 
something of Christianity, something of atheism, something of 
free love, something of communism, something of Western 
philosophy, something of modern militarism, something, in 
fact, of everything. In the midst of the sturdy medievalism of 
the masses of their countrymen the young intellectuals have 
been taught the most extreme of every culture. Intellectually 
they have been forced to the same great omissions that China 
has made physically. They have skipped, figuratively speaking, 
from the period of the unimproved country road to the aero- 
plane era. The omission was too great. The mind could not 
compensate for it. The spirit was lost in the conflict. 

The first result, therefore, of the hiatus was undoubtedly to 



viii INTRODUCTION 

produce a class of young Chinese, both men and women, but 
chiefly men, who frankly did not know how to live in their own 
country or in the age in which their country still was. They 
were for the most part educated abroad, where they forgot the 
realities of their own race. It was easy enough for various 
revolutionary leaders to persuade these alienated minds that 
China’s so-called backwardness was due primarily to political 
and material interference by foreign powers. The world was 
made the scapegoat for China’s medievalism. Instead of 
realizing that China was in her own way making her own 
steps, slowly, it is true, and somewhat ponderously, toward 
modernity, it was easy hue and cry to say that if it had not 
been for foreigners she would have been already on an equality, 
in material terms, with other nations. 

The result of this was a fresh revolution of a sort. China 
practically rid herself of her two great grievances outside of 
Japan, extraterritoriality and the tariff. No great visible 
change appeared as a consequence. It became apparent that 
what had been weaknesses were still weaknesses, and that 
these were inherent in the ideology of the people. It was found, 
for instance, that when a revolutionary leader became secure 
and entrenched he became conservative and as corrupt, too 
often, as an old style official. The same has been true in other 
histories. There were too many honest and intelligent young 
minds in China not to observe and accept the truth, that the 
outside world had very little to do with China’s condition, and 
what she had to do with it could have been prevented if China 
had been earlier less sluggish and her leaders less blind and selfish. 

Then followed a period of despair and frenzy and increased 
idealistic worship of the West. The evident prosperity of 
foreign countries was felt to be a direct fruit of Western scientific 
development. It was a time when the inferiority complex was 
rampant in China, and the young patriots were divided between 
mortification at what their country was and desire to conceal 
it from foreigners. There was no truth to be found in them, 
so far as their own country was concerned. They at once hated 
and admired the foreigners. 

What would have happened if the West had continued 
prosperous and at peace cannot be said. It is enough that the 



IJNTKUDUUiiUiN 


IX 


West did not so continue. The Chinese have viewed with 
interest and sometimes with satisfaction the world war, the 
depression, the breakdown of prosperity, and the failure of 
scientific men to prevent these disasters. They have begun 
to say to themselves that after all China is not so bad. Evidently 
there is hunger everywhere, there are bandits everywhere, and 
one people is not better than another, and if this is so, then 
perhaps China was right in olden times, and perhaps it is just 
as well to go back and see what the old Chinese philosophy was. 
At least it taught people to live with contentment and with 
enjoyment of small things if they had not the great ones, and 
it regulated life and provided a certain amount of security 
and safety. The recent interest in China on the part of the 
West, the wistfulness of certain Western persons who envy the 
simplicity and security of China’s pattern of life and admire 
her arts and philosophy have also helped to inspire the young 
Chinese with confidence in themselves. 

The result to-day is simply a reiteration of the old Biblical 
adage that the fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children’s 
teeth are set on edge. Young China, being wearied of the 
revolutionary ardours of its fathers, is going back to old China, 
It is almost amusing to see the often self-conscious determin- 
ation to be really Chinese, to eat Chinese food, to live in 
Chinese ways, to dress in Chinese clothes. It is as much of a 
fad and a pose to be entirely Chinese these days among certair 
young westernized Chinese as it was for their fathers to weai 
foreign clothes and eat with knives and forks and want to gc 
to Harvard. These present young people have worn foreigr 
clothes all their lives and eaten foreign food and they did gc 
to Harvard, and they know English literature infinitely bettei 
than their own, and now they are sick of it all and want to gc 
back to their grandfathers. 

The trend is apparent everywhere, and not only in the ex- 
ternals of dress and customs. Far more importantly is it to b< 
seen in art and literature. The subject of modem Chinese 
novels of a few years ago, for instance, dealt chiefly with moden 
love situations, with semi-foreign liaisons, with rebellion 
against home and parents, and the whole tone was somewha 
sickly and certainly totally unrooted in the country. Ther 



X 


INTRODUCTION 


is still more than enough of this in both art and literature, but 
health is beginning to creep in, the health of life from plain 
people living plain and sturdy lives upon their earth. The 
young intellectuals are beginning to discover their own masses. 
They are beginning to find that life in the countryside, in 
small towns and villages, is the real and native life of China, 
fortunately still fairly untouched with the mixed modernism 
which has made their own lives unhealthy. They are beginning 
to feel themselves happy that there is this great solid founda- 
tion in their nation, and to turn to it eagerly for fresh in- 
spiration. It is new to them, it is delightful, it is humorous, it 
is worth having, and above all, it is purely Chinese. 

They have been helped to this new viewpoint, too. They 
would not, I think, have achieved it so well alone, and it is 
the West which has helped them. We of the West have helped 
them not only negatively, by exhibiting a certain sort of break- 
do\ra in our own civilization, but we have helped them 
positively, by our own trend toward elemental life. The 
W^tem interest in all proletarian movements has set young 
China to thinking about her own proletariat, and to discover- 
ing the extraordinary quality of her country people, main- 
taining their life pure and incredibly undisturbed by the world’s 
confusion. It is natural that such tranquillity should greatly 
appeal to mtellectuals in their own confusion and sense of 
being lost in the twisted times. 

Communism, too, has helped them. Communism has brought 
about class consciousness, it has made the common man 
a^culate and demanding, and since modern education in 
China has been available to the children of common people, 
they have already been given a sort of voice, at least, where- 
with to speak for themselves, however inadequately. In the 
art ^d Hterature of the young Leftists in China there is a 
rapidly spreading perception of the value of the common man 
and woman of their country. The expression is stiU crude and 
too much influenced by foreign art, but the notion is there 
One sometimes sees these days a peasant woman upon a canvas 
instead of a bird upon a bamboo twig, and the straining figure of 
a man pus^g a wheelbarrow instead of goldfish flashing in 



INTRODUCTION 


XI 


Yet if we of the West were to wait for the interpretation of 
China until these newly released ones could find adequate 
and articulate voice, it would be to wait long — ^longer, perhaps, 
than our generation. Happily there are a few others, a few 
spirits large enough not to be lost in the confusion of the times, 
humorous enough to see life as it is, with the fine old humour 
of generations of sophistication and learning, keen enough to 
understand their own civilization as well as others, and wise 
enough to choose what is native to them and therefore truly 
their own. For a long time I have hoped that one of these 
few would write for us all a book about his own China, a real 
book, permeated with the essential spirit of the people. Time 
after time I have opened a book, eagerly and with hope, and 
time after time I have closed it again in disappointment, 
because it was untrue, because it was bombastic, because it 
was too fervent in defence of that which was too great to need 
defence. It was written to impress the foreigner, and there- 
fore it was unworthy of China. 

A book about China, worthy to be about China, can be 
none of these things. It must be frank and unashamed, because 
the real Chinese have always been a proud people, proud 
enough to be frank and unashamed of themselves and their 
ways. It must be wise and penetrative in its understanding, 
for the Chinese have been above aU peoples wise and pene- 
trative in their understanding of the human heart. It must be 
humorous, because humour is an essential part of Chinese 
nature, deep, mellow, kindly humour, founded upon the 
tragic knowledge and acceptance of life. It must be expressed 
in flowing, exact, beautiful words, because the Chinese have 
always valued the beauty of the exact and the exquisite. None 
but a Chinese could write such a book, and I had begun to 
think that as yet even no Chinese could write it, because it 
seemed impossible to find a modem English-writing Chinese 
who was not so detached from his own people as to be alien 
to them, and yet detached enough to comprehend their mean- 
ing, the meaning of their age and the meaning of their youth. 

But suddenly, as all great books appear, this book appears, 
fulfilling every demand made upon it. It is truthful and not 
ashamed of the truth: it is written proudly and humorously 



xii - . . j 

and with beauty, seriously and with gaiety SlhtTnSt 
understanding of both old and new. It is, I think, ttie truest, 
Sf mSt profound, the most complete, the most important 
£,ok yet Witten about China. And, best of all, it is written 
by a Chinese, a modern, whose roots are firmly m the past, 
tat whose rich aowering is in the present. 


INTRODUCTION 



PREFACE 


IN this book I have tried only to communicate my opinions, 
which I have arrived at after some long and painful thought 
and reading and introspection. I have not tried to enter into 
arguments or prove my different theses, but I will stand 
justified or condemned by this book, as Confucius once said of 
his Spring and Autumn Annals. China is too big a country, and 
her national life has too many facets, for her not to be open to 
the most diverse and contradictory interpretations. And I 
shall always be able to assist with very convenient material 
anyone who wishes to hold opposite theses. But truth is truth 
and will overcome clever human opinions. It is given to man 
only at rare moments to perceive the truth, and it is these 
moments of perception that will survive, and not individual 
opinions. Therefore, the most formidable marshalling of 
evidence can often lead one to conclusions which are mere 
learned nonsense. For the presentation of such perceptions, 
one needs a simpler, which is really a subtler, style. For truth 
can never be proved; it can only be hinted at. 

It is also inevitable that I should offend many writers about 
China, especially my own countrymen and great patriots. 
These great patriots — I have nothing to do with them, for 
their god is not my god, and their patriotism is not my patriot- 
ism. Perhaps I too love my own country, but I take care to conceal 
it before them, for one may wear the cloak of patriotism to 
tatters, and in these tatters be paraded through the city streets 
to death, in China or the rest of the world. 

I am able to confess because, unlike these patriots, I am 
not ashamed of my country. And I can lay bare her troubles 
because I have not lost hope. China is bigger than her little 
patriots, and does not require their whitewashing. She will, 
as she always did, right herself again. 

Nor do I write for the patriots of the West. For I fear more 
their aunreciative Quotations from me than the misunder- 



xiv PREFACE 

standings of my countrymen. I write only for the men of 
simple common sense, that simple common sense for which 
ancient China was so distinguished, but which is so rare to- 
day. My book can only be understood from this simple point 
of view. To these people who have not lost their sense of 
ultimate human values, to them alone I speak. For they alone 


will understand me. . 

My thanks are due to Pearl S. Buck who, from the beginning 

to the end, gave me kind encouragement and who personally 
read through the entire manuscript before it was sent to the 
press and edited it, to Mr. Richard J. Walsh who offered 
valuable criticism while the book was in progress, and to Miss 
T.^lli'an Peffer, who styled the manuscript, read the proofs and 
made the index. Acknowledgements are also due to Mrs. 
Selskar M. Gunn, Bernardine Szold Fritz and Baroness Ungern- 
Sternberg, who, sometimes singly and sometimes^ in chorus, 
nagged me into writing this book. Lastly, I am indebted to 
my wife who patiently went through with me the less pleasant 
aspects of authorship, which only an author’s wife could 


appreciate. 


The Author. 


June, 1935 
Shanghai 



CONTENTS 


Introduction by Pearl S. Buck 

PAGE 

vii 

Authors Preface 


xiii 

Prologue 

Part One: Bases 

3 

1. The Chinese People 


I. 

NORTH AND SOUTH 

15 

n. 

DEGENERATION 

22 

m. 

INFUSION OF NEW BLOOD 

26 

IV. 

CULTURAL STABILITY 

32 

V. 

RACIAL YOUTH 

37 

II. The Chinese Character 


L 

MELLOWNESS 

40 

n. 

PATIENCE 

43 

m. 

INDIFFERENCE 

45 

IV. 

OLD ROGUERY 

49 

V. 

PACIFISM 

54 

VI. 

CONTENTMENT 

58 

vir. 

HUMOUR 

62 

vni. 

CONSERVATISM 

68 


XV 


5 



CONTENTS 


:vi 

III. The Chinese Mind page 


I. 

INTELLIGENCE 

73 

n. 

FEMININITY 

76 

m. 

LACK OF SCIENCE 

80 

IV, 

LOGIC 

83 

V. 

INTUITION 

86 

VI. 

IMAGINATION 

89 

IV. Ideals 

I. 

OF Life 

CHINESE HUMANISM 

95 

n. 

RELIGION 

97 

ni. 

THE DOCTRINE OF THE GOLDEN MEAN 

103 

rv. 

TAOISM 

109 

V. 

BUDDHISM 

116 

Part Two: Life 

Prologue to Part Two 

129 

V. Woman’s Life 

I. THE SUBJECTION OF WOMEN 

131 

n. 

HOME AND MARRIAGE 

137 

m. 

IDEAL OF WOMANHOOD 

142 

IV, 

EDUCATION OF OUR DAUGHTERS 

146 

' V. 

LOVE AND COURTSHIP 

148 

VI. 

THE COURTESAN AND CONCUBINAGE 

152 

vn. 

FOOTBINDING 

158 

vm. 

EMANCIPATION 

161 



CONTENTS 


xvu 


VI. Social and Political Life page 

I. ABSENCE OF THE SOCIAL MIND 1 64 

n. THE FAMILY SYSTEM 1 68 

m. NEPOTISM, CORRUPTION AND MANNERS 1 72 

IV. PRIVILEGE AND EQUALITY 177 

V. SOCIAL CLASSES 180 

VI. THE MALE TRIAD 1 83 

Vn. THE FEMALE TRIAD 1 86 

Vm. THE VILLAGE SYSTEM IQS 

IX. “government by gentlemen” 196 

VII. Literary Life 

I. A distinction 203 

n. LANGUAGE AND THOUGHT 2O5 

m. SCHOLARSHIP 21 1 

IV. THE COLLEGE 2I5 

V. PROSE 219 

VI. LITERATURE AND POLITIGS 223 

VH. LITERARY REVOLUTION 226 

Vni. POETRY 228 

rX. DRAMA 244 

X. THE NOVEL 255 

XI. INFLUENCE OF WESTERN LITERATURE 264 

VIII. The Artistio Life 

1. THE ARTIST 271 

n. CHINESE CALLIGRAPHY 274 



XVIU 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 


m. 

PAINTING 

281 

IV* 

ARGHITEOTURE 

294 

IX. The Art of Living 


I* 

THE PLEASURES OF LIFE 

304 

n. 

HOUSE AND GARDEN 

310 

m* 

EATING AND DRINKING 

317 

Epilogue 

I. 

THE END OF LIFE 

326 

n. 

REAL CHINA 

329 

m* 

A QUEST FOR LEADERSHIP 

336 

IVa 

THE WAY OUT 

340 


Appendices 


1 . 


n. 


CHINESE DVNASmS 

A NOTE ON SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION OF CHINESE 
NAMES 

INDEX 


347 

348 

349 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

ANIMISM AS A PRINCIPLE OF CHINESE ART 
THE WRITING OF UN OHANGMEN 
“a horse,” by PEON JU 


between 278-9 
» 278-9 

facing 282 



PART ONE 
BASES 




I 


WHEN one is in China, one is compelled to think about her, 
with compassion always, with despair sometimes, and with 
discrimination and understanding very rarely. For one either 
loves or hates China. Perhaps even when one does not live in 
China one sometimes thinks of her as an old, great big country 
which remains aloof from the world and does not quite belong 
to it. That aloofness has a certain fascination. But if one 
comes to China, one feels engulfed and soon stops thinking. 
One merely feels she is there, a tremendous existence some- 
what too big for the human naind to encompass, a seemingly 
inconsequential chaos obeying its own laws of existence and 
enacting its own powerful life-drama, at times tragic, at times 
comical, but always intensely and boisterously real; then after 
awhile, one begins to think again, with wonder and amazement. 

This time, the reaction \^1 be temperamental; it merely 
indicates whether one is a romantic cosmopolitan individual 
or a conceited, self-satisfied prig, one either- likes or dislikes 
China, and then proceeds to justify one’s likes or dislikes. That 
is just as well, for we must take some sort of attitude toward 
C!^a to justify ourselves as intelligent beings. We grope 
for reasons, and begin to tell one another little anecdotes, 
trifles of everyday life, escaped or casual words of conversation, 
things of tremendous importance that make us philosophers 
and enable us to become, with great equanimity, either her 
implacable critics, allowing nothing good for her, or else her 
ardent, romantic admirers. Of course, these generalizations are 
rather silly. But that is how human opinions are formed all over 
the world, and it is unavoidable. Then we set about arguing 
with one another. Some always come out from the argument 
supremely satisfied of their rightness, self-assured that they 
have an opinion of China and of the Chinese people. They 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


4 


are the happy people who rule the world and import mer- 
chandise from one part of it to another, and who are always 
in the right. Others find themselves beset with doubts and 
perplexities, with a feeling of awe and bewilderment, perhaps 
of awe and mystification and they end where they began. But 
all of us feel China is there, a great mystical Dasein. 

For China is the greatest mystifying and stupefying fact in 
the modern world, and that not only because of her age or 
her geographical greatness. She is the oldest living nation 
with a continuous culture; she has the largest population; 
once she was the greatest empire in the world, and she was a 
conqueror; she gave the world some of its most important 
inventions; she has a literature, a philosophy, a wisdom of life 
entirely her own; and in the realms of art, she soared where 
others merely made an effort to flap their wings. And yet, 
to-day she is undoubtedly the most chaotic, the most misruled 
nation on earth, the most pathetic and most helpless, the most 
unable to pull herself together and forge ahead. God— if there 
be a God— intended her to be a first-class nation among the 
peoples of the earth, and she has chosen to take a back seat 
with Guatemala at the League of Nations; and the entire 
League of Nations, with the best will in the world, cannot 
help her caimot help her to pull her own house in order, 
cannot help her to stop her own civil wars, cannot help her to 
save herself from her own scholars and militarists, her own 
revolutionists and gentry politicians. 

Meanwhile— and this is the most amazing fact— she is the 
least concerned about her own salvation. Like a good gambler, 
she took the loss of a slice of territory the size of Germany 
itsdf without a wince. And whfle General T’ang Yiilin was 
beating a world record retreat and losing half a million square 
miles m eight days, two generals, an uncle and a nephew, 
were matching their strength in Szechuen. One begins to 
wonder whe&er ^d will win out in the end, whether God 
IWelf^an help China to become a first-class nation in spite 


i^d ano&er doubt arises in one^s mind: What is China’s 
destmy? WiU she survive as she so successfully did in the past, 
and m a way that no other old nation was able to do? Did 



PROLOGUE 5 

God really intend her to be a first-class nation? Or is she 
merely ‘‘Mother Earth’s miscarriage”? 

Once she had a destiny. Once she was a conqueror. Now 
her greatest destiny seems to be merely to exist, to survive, 
and one cannot but have faith in her ability to do so, when 
one remembers how she has survived the ages, after the beauty 
that was Greece and the glory that was Rome are long van- 
ished, remembers how she has ground and modelled foreign 
truths into her own likeness and absorbed foreign races into 
her own blood. This fact of her survival, of her great age, is 
evidently something worth pondering upon. There is some- 
thing due an old nation, a respect for hoary old age that should 
be applied to nations as to individuals. Yes, even to mere old 
age, even to mere survival. 

For whatever else is wrong, China has a sound instinct for 
life, a strange supernatural, extraordinary vitality. She has 
led a life of the instinct; she has adjusted herself to economic, 
political and social environments that might have spelled 
disaster to a less robust racial constitution; she has received 
her share of nature’s bounty, has clung to her flowers and 
birds and hills and dales for her inspiration and moral support, 
which alone have kept her heart whole and pure and prevented 
the race from civic social degeneration. She has chosen to live 
much in the open, to bask in the sunlight, to watch the evening 
glow, to feel the touch of the morning dew and to smell 
the fragrance of hay and of the moist earth; through her 
poetry, through the poetry of habits of life as well as through 
the poetry of words, she has learned to refresh her, alas! too 
often wounded, soul. In other words, she has managed to 
reach grand old age in the same way as human individuals do 
by living much in the open and having a great deal of sunlight 
and fresh air. But she has also lived through hard times, 
through recurrent centuries of war and pestilence, and through 
natural calamities and human misrule. With a grim humour 
and somewhat coarse nerves, she has weathered them all, and 
somehow she has always riglxted herself. Yes, great age, even 
mere great age, is something to be wondered at. 

Now that she has reached grand old age, she is beyond 
bodily and spiritual sorrows, and one would have thought, at 



6 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


times, beyond hope and beyond redemption. Is it the strength 
or the weakness of old age, one wonders? She has defied the 
world, and has taken a nonchalant attitude toward it, which her 
old age entitles her to do* Whatever happens, her placid life 
flows on unperturbed, insensible to pain and to misery, im- 
pervious to shame and to ambition — the little human emotions 
that agitate young breasts — and imdaunted even by the threat 
of immediate ruin and collapse for the last two centuries. 
Success and failure have ceased to touch her; calamities and. 
death have lost their sting; and the overshadowing of her 
national life for a period of a few centuries has ceased to have 
any meaning. Like the sea in the Nietzschean analogy, she 
is greater than all the fish and shell-fish and jelly-fish in 
her, greater than the mud and refuse thrown into her. She is 
greater than the lame propaganda and petulance of all her 
returned students, greater than the hypocrisy, shame and greed 
of all her petty officials and turncoat generis and fence-riding 
revolutionists, greater than her wars and pestilence, greater 
than her dirt and poverty and famines. For she has survived 
them all. Amidst wars and pestilence, surrounded by her 
poor children and grandchildren. Merry Old China quietly 
sips her tea and smiles on, and in her smile I see her real 
strength. She quietly sips her tea and smiles on, and in her 
smile I detect at times a mere laziness to change and at 
others a conservatism that savours of haughtiness. Laziness 
or haughtiness, which? I do not know. But somewhere in 
her soul lurks the cu nnin g of an old dog, and it is a cunning 
that is strangely impressive. What a strange old soul! What 
a great old soul! 


II 

But what price greatness? Carlyle has said somewhere that 
the first impression of a really great work of art is always un- 
nerving to the point of painfulness. It is the lot of the great 
to be misunderstood, and so it is China’s lot. China has been 
greatly, magnificently misunderstood. Greatness is often the 
term we confer on what we do not understand and wish to 



PROLOGUE 


7 

have done with- Between being well understood, however, 
and being called great, China would have preferred the 
former, and it would have been better for everybody all round. 
But how is China to be understood? Who be her inter- 
preters? There is that long history of hers, covering a multitude 
of kings and emperors and sages and poets and scholars and 
brave mothers and talented women. There are her arts and 
philosophies, her paintings and her theatres, which provide 
the common people with all the moral notions of good and 
evil, and that tremendous mass of folk literature and folklore. 
The language alone constitutes an almost hopeless barrier. 
Can rihina be understood merely through pidgin English? 
Is the Old China Hand to pick up an understanding of the 
soul of rihina from his cook and amah? Or shall it be from 
his Number One Boy? Or shsiU it be from his compradore and 
shroff, or by reading the correspondence of the J^orth China 
Daily News? The proposition is manifestly unfair. 

Indeed, the business of trying to imderstand a foreign nation 
with a foreign culture, especially one so different from one’s 
own as China’s, is usually not for the mortal man. For this 
work there is need for broad, brotherly feeling, for the feeling 
of the common bond of humanity aind the cheer of good fellow- 
ship. One must feel with the pulse of the heart as well as see 
with the eyes of the mind. There must be, too, a certain 
detachment, not from the country under examiuation, for 
that is always so, but from oneself and one’s subconscious 
notions, and from the deeply imbedded notions of one’s child- 
hood anH the equally tyrannous ideas of one’s adult days, 
from those big words with capital letters Eke Democracy, 
Prosperity, Capital, and Success and Religion and Dividends. 
One needs a little detachment, and a little simplicity of mind, 
too, that simplicity of mind so well typified by Robert Bums, 
one of the most Scottish and yet most imiversal of all poets, 
who strips our souls bare and reveals our conunon humanity 
nnH the loves and sorrows that common humanity is heir to. 
Only with that detachment and that simplicity of mind can 
one understand a foreign nation. 

Who will, then, be her interpreters? The problem is an 
almost insoluble one. Certainly not the sinologues and 



8 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

librarians abroad who see China only through the reflection 
of the Gonfucian classics. The true Europeans in China do 
not speaJk Chinese, and the true Chinese do not speak English. 
The Europeans who speak Chinese too well develop certain 
mental habits akin to the Chinese and are regarded by their 
compatriots as “queer."’ The Chinese who speak English too 
well and develop Western mental habits are “denationalized,” 
or they may not even speak Chinese, or speak it with an 
English accent. So by a process of elimination, it would seem 
that we have to put up with the Old China Hand, and that 
we have largely to depend upon his understanding of pidgin. 

The Old China Hand, or O.C.H.— let us stop to picture 
him, for he is important as your only authority on China. He 
has been well described by Mr. Arthur Ransome.^ But to my 
mind, he is a vivid personality, and one can now easily picture 
him in the imagination. Let us make no naistake about him. 
He may be the son of a missionary, or a captain or a pilot, or 
a secretary in the consular service, or he may be a merchant to 
whom China is just a market for selling sardines and “sunkist” 
oranges. He is not always uneducated; in fact, he may be a 
brilliant journalist, with one eye to a political advisorship and 
the other to a loan commission. He may even be very well in- 
formed within his limits, the limits of a man who cannot talk three 
syllables of Chinese and depends on his English-speaking 
Chinese friends for his supplies of information. But he keeps 
on with his adventure and he plays golf and his golf helps to 
keep him fit. He drinks Lipton’s tea and reads the North China 
Daily News^ and his spirit revolts against the morning reports 
of banditry and kidnapping and recurrent civil wars, which 
spoil his breakfast for him. He is well shaved and dresses 
more neatly than his Chinese associates, and his boots are 
better shined than they would be in England, although this 
is no credit to him, for the Chinese boys are such good boot- 
blacks. He rides a distance of three or four miles from his 
home to his office every morning, and believes himself desired 
at Miss Smith’s tea. He may have no aristocratic blood in 
his veins^ nor ancestral oil portraits in his halls, but he can 
always circumvent that by going further back in history and 
i Thfi Chinese Puzzle, especially the chapter on "'The Shanghai Mind." 



PROLOGUE 


9 

discovering that his forefathers in the primeval forests had the 
right blood in them, and that sets his mind at peace and relieves 
him of all anxiety to study things Chinese* But he is also un- 
comfortable every time his business takes him through Chinese 
streets where the heathen eyes all stare at him. He takes his 
handkerchief and vociferously blows his nose with it and 
bravely endures it, all the while in a blue funk. He broadly 
surveys the wave of blue-dressed humanity. It seems to him 
their eyes are not quite so slant as the shilling-shocker covers 
represent them to be. Can these people stab one in the back? 
It seems unbelievable in the beautiful sunlight, but one never 
knows, and the courage and sportsmanship which he learned 
at the cricket field all leave him. Why, he would rather be 
knocked in the head by a cricket bat than go through those 
crooked streets again! Yes, it was fear^ primeval fear of the 
Unknown. 

But to him, it is not just that. It is his humanity that cannot 
stand the sight of human misery and poverty, as understood 
in his own terms. He simply cannot stand being pulled by a 
human beast of burden in a rickshaw — ^he has to have a car. j 
His car is not just a car, it is a moving covered corridor that : 
leads from his home to his office and protects him from Chinese \ 
humanity. He will not leave his car and his civilization. He 
tells Miss Smith so at tea, saying that a car in China is not a 
luxury but a necessity. That three-mile ride of an enclosed 
mind in an enclosed glass case from the home to the office he 
takes every day of his twenty-five years in China, although he 
does not mention this fact when he goes home to England and 
signs himself ‘‘An Old Resident Twenty-Five Years in China” 
in correspondence to the London Times. It reads very im- 
pressively. Of course, he should know what he is talking about. 

Meanwhile, that three-mile radius has seldom been exceeded, 
except when he goes on cross-country paper hunts over Chinese 
farm fields, but then he is out in the oepn and knows how to 
defend himself. But in this he is mistaken, for he never has 
to, and this he knows himself, for he merely says so, when he is 
out for sport. He has never been invited to Chinese homes, 
has sedulously avoided Chinese restaurants, and has never read 
a single line of Chinese newspapers. He goes to the longest 



10 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

bar in the world of an evening, sips his cocktail and picks up 
and imbibes and exchanges bits of sailors’ tales on the China 
coast handed down from the Portuguese sailors, and is sorry 
to find that Shanghai is not Sussex, and generally behaves as 
he would in England.^ He feels happy when he learns that the 
Chinese are beginning to observe Christmas and make pro- 
gress, and feels amazed when he is not understood in English; 
he walks as if the whole lot of them did not exist for him, and 
does not say “sorry” even in English when he steps on a fellow- 
passenger’s toes; yes, he has not even learned the Chinese 
equivalents of “danke seW' and ^^hitte schorC’ and “vermhen 
Sie” the minimum moral obligations of even a passing tourist, 
and complains of anti-foreignism and despairs because even 
the pillaging of the Pekin palaces after the Boxer Uprising has 
not taught the Chinese a lesson. There is your authority on 
China. Oh, for a common bond of humanity! 

All this one can tmderstand, and it is even quite natural, 
and should not be mentioned here were it not for the fact that 
it bears closdy on the formation of opinions on China in the 
West. One needs only to think of the language difficulty, of 
the almost impossible learning of the Chinese writing, of the 
actual politicsi, intellectual and artistic chaos in present-day 
China, and of the vast differences in customs between the 
Chinese and the Westerners. The plea here is essentially for 
a better understanding on a higher level of intelligence. Yet it 
is difficult to deny the Old China Hand the right to write 
books and articles about China, simply because he catmot 
read the Chinese newspapers. Nevertheless, such books and 
articles must necessarily remain on the level of the gossip along 
the world’s longest bar. 

There are exceptions, of course — ^a Sir Robert Hart or a 
Bertrand RmscU, for example— who are able to see the meaning 

1 Awito signing himself " J. D." says in an article on "Englishmenin China” 
published in The New Statesman, London: "His life is spent between his office 
and the club. In the former, he is surrounded by foreigners as equals or 
superiors and by Chinese as inferiors — clerks and so forth. In the latter, except 
for the servants, he sees nothing but foreigners, from whom every right he 
heara complaints about Chinese dishonesty and stupidity, interspersed by 
stories of the day’s work, and by discussions on tyort, which is the one thing 
that saves the Englishman in China. It is the only alternative to abuse of the 
Chinese.” 



PROLOGUE 


II 


in a type of life so different from one’s own, but for one Sir 
Robert Hart there are ten thousand Rodney Gilberts, and for 
one Bertrand Russell there are ten thousand H. G. W. Wood- 
heads. The result is a constant, unintelligent elaboration of 
the Chinaman as a stage fiction, which is as childish as it is 
untrue and with which the West is so familiar, and a con- 
tinuation of the early Portuguese sailors’ tradition minus the 
sailors’ obscenity of language, but with essentially the same 
sailors’ obscenity of mind. 

The Chinese sometimes wonder among themselves why 
China attracts only sailors and adventurers to her coast. 
To understand that, one would have to read H. B. Morse 
and trace the continuity of that sailor tradition to the present 
day, and observe the similarities between the early Portuguese 
sailors and the modem O.C.H.S in their general outlook, their 
interests and the natural process of selection and force of circmn- 
stances which have washed them ashore on this corner of the 
earth, and the motives which drove, and are stfil driving, them 
to this heathen country — ^gold and adventure. Gold and 
adventure which in the first instance drove Columbus, the 
greatest sailor-adventurer of them all, to seek a route to China. 

Then one begins to understand that continuity, begins to 
understand how that Columbus-sailor tradition has been so 
solidly and equitably carried on, and one feels a sort of pity 
for China; a pity that it is not our humanity but our gold and 
our capacities as buying animals which have attracted the 
Westerners to this Far Eastern shore. It is gold and suc- 
cess, Henry James’s “bitch-goddess,” which have bound the 
Westerners and the Chinese together, and thrown them into this 
whirlpool of obscenity, with not a single human, spiritual tie 
among them. They do not admit this to themselves, the Chinese 
and the English; so the Chinese asks the Englishman why he 
does not leave the country if he hates it so, and the Englishman 
asks in retort why the Chinese does not leave the foreign 
settlements, and both of them do not know how to reply. As 
it is, the Englishman does not bother to make himself under- 
stood to the Chinese, and the true Chinese bothers even less 
to make himself understood to the Englishman. 



12 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


III 

But do the Chinese understand themselves? Will they be 
Ghina^s best interpreters? Self-knowledge is proverbially 
difficult, much more so in a circumstance where a great deal 
of wholesome, sane-minded criticism is required. Assuredly 
no language ffifficulty exists for the educated Chinese, , but that 
long history of China is difficult for him also to master 5 her 
arts, philosophies, poetry, literature and the theatre are 
difficult for him to penetrate and illuminate with a clear and 
beautiful understanding; and his own fellow-men, the fellow- 
passenger in a street car or a former fellow-student now pre- 
tending to rule the destiny of a whole province, are for him, 
too, difficult to forgive. 

For the mass of foreground details, which swamps the foreign 
observer, swamps the modern Chinese as well. Perhaps he has 
even less the cool detachment of the foreign observer. In his 
breast is concealed a formidable struggle, or several struggles. 
There is the conflict between his ideal and his real China, and a 
more formidable conffict between his primeval clan-pride and 
his moments of admiration for the stranger. His soul is torn 
by a conffict of loyalties belonging to opposite poles, a loyalty 
to old China, half romantic and half selfish, and a loyalty to 
open-eyed wisdom which craves for change and a ruthless 
clean-sweeping of all that is stale and putrid and dried up and 
mouldy. Sometimes it is a more elementary conffict between 
shame and pride, between sheer family loyalty and a critical 
ashamedness for the present state of things, instincts whole- 
some in themselves. But sometimes his clan-pride gets the 
better of him, and between proper pride and mere reactionism 
there is only a thin margin, and sometimes his instinct of 
shame gets the better of him, and between a sincere desire for 
reform and a mere shallow modernity and worship of the 
modem bitch-goddess, there is also only a very thin margin. 
To escape that is indeed a delicate task. 

Where is that unity of understanding to be found? To 
combine real appreciation with critical appraisal, to see with 
the mind and feel with the heart, to make the mind and the 



heart at one, is no easy state of grace to attain to. Foi 
it involves no less than the salvaging of an old culture, like 
the sorting of family treasures, and even the connoisseur’s eyes 
are sometimes deceived and his fingers sometimes falter. It 
requires courage and that rare thing, honesty, and that still 
rarer thing, a constant questioning activity of the mind. 

But he has a distinct advantage over the foreign observer. 
For he is a Chinese, and as a Chinese, he not only sees with 
his mind but he also feels with his heart, and he knows tha"" 
the blood, surging in his veins in tides of pride and shame 
is Chinese blood, a mystery of mysteries which carries withh 
its bio-chemical constitution the past and the future of China 
bearer of all its pride and shame and of all its glories and it 
iniquities. The analogy of the family treasure is theref6r( 
incomplete and inadequate, far that unconscious nationa 
heritage is within him and is part of himself. He has perhaps 
learned to play English football but he does not love football; 
he has perhaps learned to admire American eiBBlciency, but his 
soul revolts against efficiency; he has perhaps learned to use 
table napkins, but he hates table napkins, and all through 
Schubert’s melodies and Brahms’ songs, he hears, as an over- 
tone, the echo of age-old folk songs and pastoral lyrics of the 
Orient, luring him back. He explores the beauties and glories 
of the West, but he comes back to the East, his Oriental blood 
overcoming him when he is approaching forty. He sees the por- 
trait of his father wearing a Chinese silk cap, and he discards 
his Western dress and slips into Chinese gowns and slippers, oh, 
so comfortable, so peaceful and comfortable, for in his Chinese 
gowns and slippers his soul comes to rest. He cannot understand 
the Western dog-collar any more, and wonders how he ever stood 
it for so long. He does not play football any more, either, but 
begins to cultivate Chinese hygiene, and saunters along in 
the mulberry fields and bamboo groves and willow banks for ' 
his exercise, and even this is not a ‘^country walk” as the English 
understand it, but just an Oriental saunter, good for the body 
and good for the soul. He hates the word ‘‘exercise.” Exercise 
for what? It is a ridiculous Western notion. Why, even the 
sight of respectable grown-up men dashing about in a field 
for a ball now seems ridiculous, supremely ridiculous; and more 



my country and my people 

ridiculous still, the wrapping oneself up in hot flannels and 
woollen sweaters after the game on a hot summer day. Why 
all the bother? He reflects. He remembers he used to enjoy 
it himself, but then he was young and immature and he was 
not himself. It was but a passing fancy, and he has not really 
the instinct for sport. No, he is born differently; he is bom 
for kowtowing and for quiet and peace, and not for football 
and the dog-collar and table napldns and efficiency. He some- 
times thinks of himself as a pig, and the Westerner as a dog, 
and the dog worries the pig, but the pig only grunts, and it 
may even be a grunt of satisfaction. Why, he even wants to 
be a pig, a real pig, for it is really so very comfortable, and he 
does not envy the dog for his collar and his dog-efficiency and 
his bitch-goddess success. All he wants is that the dog leave 
him alone. 

That is how it is with the modem Chinese as he surveys 
Eastern and Western culture. It is the only way in which the 
Eastern culture should be surveyed and understood. For he 
has a Chinese father and a Chinese mother, and every time 
he talks of China, he thinks of his father and his mother or of 
the memories of them. It was a life, their lives, so full of courage 
and patience and suffering and happiness and fortitude, lives 
imtouched by the modern influence, but lives no less grand 
and noble zind humble and sincere. Then does he tmly under- 
stand China. That seems to me to be the only way of looking 
at China, and of looking at any foreign nation, by searching, 
not for the exotic but for the common human values, by pene- 
trating beneath the superficial quaintness of manners and look- 
ing for real courtesy, by seeing beneath the strange women’s 
costumes and looking for real womanhood and motherhood, by 
observing the boys’ naughtiness and studying the girls’ day- 
dreams. This boys’ naughtiness and these girls’ day-dreams and 
the ring of children’s laughter and the patter of children’s feet 
and the weeping of women and the sorrows of men — ^they are all 
alike, and only through the sorrows of men and the weeping of 
women can we truly understand a nation. The differences 
are only in the forms of social behaviour. This is the basis of 
all sound international criticism. 



Chapter One 

THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


I. North and South 

IN the study of any period of literature or of any epoch of 
history, the final and highest effort is always sin attempt to 
gain a close view of the man in that period or epoch, for behind 
the creations of literature and the events of history there is 
always the individual who is after all of prime interest to us. 
One thinks of a Marcus Aurelius or a Lucian in the times of 
decadent Rome, or of a Frangois Villon in the medieval ages, 
and the times seem at once familiar and understandable to us. 
Names like “the age of Johnson” are more suggestive to us 
than a name like “the eighteenth century,” for only by re- 
calling how Johnson lived, the mns he frequented, and the 
fidends with whom he held conversations does the period 
become real to us. Perhaps the life of a lesser literary light or 
of an ordinary Londoner in Johnson’s time would be just as 
instructive, but an ordinary Londoner could not be very 
interesting, because ordinary people throughout the ages are 
all alike. Whether ordinary people drink ale or Lipton’s tea 
is entirely a matter of social accident, and can make no 
important difference because they are ordinary men. 

That Johnson smoked and that he frequented eighteenth- 
century inns is, however, of great historical importance. Great 
souls react in a peculiar way to their social environment and 
make it of importance to us. They have that quality of genius 
which affects and is affected by the things they touch; they are 
influenced by the books they read and by the women with 
whom they come into contact, which make no impress on 
other lesser men. In them is lived to its full the life of their age 
or generation; they absorb all there is to absorb and respond 
with finest and most powerful sensitiveness. 

15 



l6 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Yet, in dealing with a country the common man cannot be 
ignored. Ancient Greece was not entirely peopled by Sophocleses 
and Elizabethan England was not strewn with Bacons and 
Shakespeares. To talk of Greece and only think of Sophocles 
and Pericles and Aspasia is to get a wrong picture of the 
Athenians. One has to supplement it with an occasional 
glimpse of the son of Sophocles who sued his father for in- 
competency in managing his family affairs, and with characters 
from Aristophanes, who were not all in love with beauty and 
occupied in the pursuit of truth, but who were often drunk, 
gluttonous, quarrelsome, venal and fickle, even as were common 
Athenians. Perhaps the fickle Athenians help us to .under- 
stand the downfall of the Athenian republic as much as 
Pericles and Aspasia help us to understand its greatness. 
Individually they are naught, but taken in the aggregate they 
influence to a very large measure the course of national events. 
In the past epoch, it may be difiicult to reconstruct them, but 
in a living country the common man is always with us. 

But who is the common man, and what is he? The China- 
man exists only as a general abstraction in our minds. Apart 
fi:om the cultural unity which binds the Chinese people as a 
nation, the southern Chinese differ probably as much from 
the northerners, in temperament, physique and habits, as the 
Mediterraneans differ from the Nordic peoples in Europe. 
Happily, within the orbit of the Chinese culture there has 
not been a rise of nationalism, but only of provincialism, 
which after all was what made peace within the empire 
possible for centuries. The common historical tradition, the 
written language, which has in a singular way solved the 
problem of Esperanto in China, and the cultural homogeneity 
achieved through centuries of slow, peaceful penetration of a 
civilization over comparatively docile aborigines, have achieved 
for Ghina the basis of the common brotherhood so much 
desirable now in Europe. Even the spoken language presents 
no diflSculty nearly so great as confronts Europe to-day. A 
native of Manchuria can, with some difficulty, make himself 
understood in south-west Yunnan, a linguistic feat made possible 
by a slow colonization process and helped greatly by the system 
of writing, the visible symbol of China’s unity. 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


17 

This cultural homogeneity sometimes makes us forget that 
racial differences, differences of blood, do exist within the 
country. At close range the abstract notion of a Chinaman dis- 
appears and breaks up into a picture of a variety of races, different 
in their stature, temperament and mental make-up. It is only 
when we try to put a southern commander over northern 
soldiers that we are abruptly reminded of the existing differences. 
For on the one hand we have the northern Chinese, acclima- 
tized to simple thinking and hard living, tall and stalwart, 
hale, hearty and humorous, onion-eating and fun-loving, 
children of nature, who are in every way more Mongolic and 
more conservative than the conglomeration of peoples near 
Shanghai and who suggest nothing of their loss of racial vigour. 
They are the Honan boxers, the Shantung bandits and the 
imperial brigands who have furnished China with all the 
native imperial dynasties, the raw material from which the 
characters of Chinese novels of wars and adventure are drawn. 

Down the south-east coast, south of the Yangtse, one meets a 
different type, inured to ease and culture and sophistication, 
mentally developed but physically retrograde, loving their 
poetry and their comforts, sleek undergrown men and slim 
neurasthenic women, fed on birds’-nest soup and lotus seeds, 
shrewd in business, gifted in belles-lettres ^ and cowardly in war, 
ready to roll on the ground and cry for mamma before the 
lifted fist descends, offsprings of the cultured Chinese families 
who crossed the Yangtse with their books and paintings during 
the end of the Ch’in Dynasty, when China was overrun by 
barbaric invaders. 

South in Kwangtung, one meets again a different people, 
where racial vigour is again in evidence, where people eat like 
men and work like men, enterprising, carefree, spendthrift, 
pugnacious, adventurous, progressive and quick-tempered, 
where beneath the Chinese culture a snake-eating aborigines 
tradition persists, reveahng a strong admixture of the blood 
of the ancient Tiieh inhabitants of southern China, North and 
south of Hankow, in the middle of China, the loud-swearing 
and intrigue-loving Hupeh people exist, who are compared 
by the people of other provinces to “nine-headed birds in 
heaven’’ because they never say die, and who think pepper not 



l8 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

hot enough to eat until they have fried it in oil, while the 
Hunan people, noted for dieir soldiery and their dogged 
persistence, offer a pleasanter variety of these descendants of 
the ancient Ch’u warriors. 

Movements of trade and the imperial rule of sending scholars 
to official posts outside their native provinces ^ have brought 
about some mixture of the peoples and have smoothed out 
these provincial differences, but as a whole they continue to 
exist. For the significant fact remains that the northerner is 
essentially a conqueror and the southerner is essentially a 
trader, and that of all the imperial brigands who have founded 
Chinese dynasties, none have come from south of the Yangtse. 
The tradition developed that no rice-eating southerners could 
movmt the dragon throne, and only noodle-eating northerners 
could. In fact, with the exception of the founders of the T’ang 
and Chou Dynasties, who emerged firom north-east Kansu and 
were therefore Turkish-suspect, aU the founders of the great 
dynasties have come from a rather restricted mountainous 
area, somewhere around the Lunghai Railway, which includes 
eastern Honan, southern Hopei, western Shantung and northern 
Anhui. It should not be difficult to determine the mileage 
of the radius within which imperial babies were bom with a 
point on the Lunghai Railway as the centre of the area. The 
founder of the Han Dynasty came from Peihsien in modem 
Hsuchow, that of the Ch’in Dynasty came from Honan, that 
of the Sung Dynasty came from Ghohsien in southern Hopei, 
and Chu Hungwu of the Ming Dynasty came from Fengyang 
in Honan. 

To this day, with the exception of Chiang Kaishek of 
Chekiang whose family history has not been made public, the 
generals for the most part come from Hopei, Shantung, Anhui 
and Honan, also with the Ltmghai Railway as the central 
point. Shantung is responsible for Wu P’eifu, Chang Tsung- 
ch’ang, Stm Ch’ilanfang and Lu Yunghsiang. Hopei gives us 
Ch’i Hsiiehyttan, Li Ghinglin, Chang Chihchiang and Lu 
Ghunglin. Honan produced Yaan Shihk’ai and Anhui pro- 
duced Feng Yuhsiang and Tuan Gh’ijui. Kiangsu has pro- 
duced no great generals, but has given us some very fine hotel 

^ Often the families of these officials settle down in their new homes. 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE I9 

boys. Over half a century ago, Hunan in the middle of China 
produced Tseng Kuofan, the exception that proves the rulej 
for although Tseng was a first-class scholar and general, being 
born south of the Yangtse and consequently a rice-eater instead 
of a noodle-eater, he was destined to end up by being a high- 
minded official and not by founding a liew dynasty for China. 
For this latter task, one needed the rawness and ruggedness 
of the North, a touch of genuine lovable vagabondage, the 
gift of loving war and turmoil for its own sake — and a contempt 
for fair play, learning and Confucian ethics until one is sitting 
secure on the dragon throne, when Confucian monarchism can 
be of extreme usefulness. 

The raw, rugged North and the soft, pliable South — one can 
see these differences in their language, music and poetry. 
Observe the contrast between the Shensi songs, on the one 
hand, sung to the metallic rhythm of hard wooden tablets and 
keyed to a high pitch like the Swiss mountain songs, suggestive 
of the howling winds on moxmtain tops and broad pastures and 
desert sand-dunes, and on the other, the indolent Soochow 
crooning, something that is between a- sigh and a snore, 
throaty, nasal, and highly suggestive of a worn-out patient of 
asthma whose sighs and groans have by force of habit become 
swaying and rhythmic. In language, one sees the difference 
between the sonorous, clear-cut rhythm of Pekingese mandarin 
that pleases by its alternate light and shade, and the soft and 
sweet babbling of Soochow women, with round-lip vowels and 
circumflex tones, where force of emphasis is not expressed by a 
greater explosion but by long-drawn-out and finely nuanced 
syllables at the end of sentences. 

The story is recounted of a northern colonel who, on 
reviewing a Soochow company, could not make the soldiers 
move by his explosive “Forward March!” The captain who 
had stayed a long time in Soochow and who understood the 
situation asked permission to give the command in his own 
way. The permission was granted. Instead of the usual clezir- 
cut “K'aipu chou!” he gave a genuine persuasive Soochow 
“kebu tser nyioMiaaaaahr’ and lo and behold! the Soochow 
company moved. 

In poetry, this difierence is strikingly illustrated in the 



20 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

poems of the North and the South during the fourth, fifth and 
sixth centuries, when northern China was for the first time 
submerged under a Tartar rule, and the cultured Chinese 
migrated southward. For it was a time when sentimental love 
lyrics flourished in the southern courts, and the southern rulers 
were many of them great lyric poets, while a peculiar form of 
love ditties, the tzuyehko, developed among the people. A 
contrast between this sentimental poetry and the fresh, naive 
poetry of the North would be highly instructive. So sang the 
anonymous poet of the South in the popular ditties: 

Kill the ever-crowing cock! 

Shoot the early announcer of the dawn! 

That there might be an uninterrupted 

Rolling darkness till Next Year’s morn! 

Or again: 

The roads are muddy and forsaken, 

Despite the cold I came to thee. 

Go and look at the footprints in snow. 

If thou wilt not believe me. 

During the Southern Sxmg Dynasty, we saw a peculiar de- 
velopment of a sentimental lyric in intricate metre, the tz'u^ 
which invariably sang of the sad lady in her boudoir, and her 
tearful red candles at night and sweet-flavoured rouge and 
eyebrow pencils, and silk curtains and beaded window screens 
and painted rails and .departed springs^ and pining lovers 
and emaciated sweethearts. It was natural that a people 
given to this kind of sentimental poetry should be conquered 
by a northern people who had but short, naive lines of poetry, 
taken, as it were, direct and without embellishment from the 
dreary northern landscape. 

Down by the Chehleh river, 

Beneath the Yin lulls, 

Like an inverted cup is the sky 
That covers the wasteland. 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


521 


Enormous is the earth. 

And the sky is a deep blue; 

The wind blows^ the tall grass bendsy 
And the sheep and cattle come into view. 

It was with this song that a northern general, after suffering a 
heavy defeat, rallied his soldiers and sent them again to battle. 
And in contrast to the southern songs of love, we have a general 
singing about a newly bought broadsword: 

I have just bought me a five-foot knife, 

I swing it with a gleaming cadence. 

I fondle it three times a clay, 

I wonH change it for fifteen maidens! 

Another song handed down to us reads: 

In the distance I descry the Mengchin river, 

The willows and poplars stand in silent grace. 

I am a Mongol’s son, 

And don’t know Chinese lays. 

A good rider requires a swift horse, 

And a swift horse requires a good rider. 

When it clatters off amidst a cloud of dust. 

You know then who wins and who’s the outsider.^ 

Lines like these open up a vista of speculation as to the 
differences of northern and southern blood that went into the 
make-up of the Chinese race, and seem to make it possible to 
understand how a nation subjected to two thousand years of 
kowtowing and indoor living and a civilization without 
popular sports could avoid the fate of civic racial degeneration 
that overtook Egypt, Greece and Rome and the other ancient 
civilizations. How has China done it? 


1 These songs are quoted by Dr. Hu Shih in support of the same thesis. 



22 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


II. Degeneration 

Degeneration is a highly misleading term, for it can only 
be relative in meaning. Since the invention of the flush toilet 
and the vacuum carpet cleaner, the modern man seems to 
judge a man's moral standards by his cleanliness, and thinks a 
dog the more highly civilized for having a weekly bath and a 
winter wrapper round his belly. I have heard sympathetic 
foreigners talking of Chinese farmers ‘'living like beasts," whose 
first step of salvation would seem to lie in a generous disin- 
fection of their huts and belongings. 

Yet it is not dirt but the fear of dirt which is the sign of 
man’s degeneration, and it is dangerous to judge a man's 
physical and moral sanity by outside standards. Actually, the 
European man living in overheated apartments and luxurious 
cars is less fitted to survive than the Chinese farmer living in 
his lowly and undisinfected hut. Nor is cruelty, natural in all 
children and savages, a sign of degeneration; rather the fear 
of pain and suflfering is a sign of it. The dog which remembers 
only to bark and not to bite, and is led through the streets as a 
lady's pet, is only a degenerate wolf. Even physical prowess 
of the type of Jack Dempsey's can lay no claim to human glory 
outside the ring, but rather only the power to work and to 
live a happy life. Not even a more highly developed animal 
whose body is a more sensitized and complicated organism, 
with greater specialized powers and more refined desires, is 
necessarily a more robust or healthy animal, when life and 
survival and happiness come into the question. The real 
question of physical and moral health in man as well as in 
animals is how well he is able to do his work and enjoy his 
life, and how fit he is yet to survive. 

If one takes merely the physical evidences, one can see clear 
traces of the effects of thousands of years of civilized life. Man 
in China has adapted himself to a social and cultural environ- 
ment that demands stamina, resistance power and negative 
strength, and he has lost a great part of mental and physical 
powers of conquest and adventure which characterized his 
forebears in the primeval forests. The humour of the Chinese 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


23 

people in inventing gunpowder and finding its best use in 
malfing firecrackers for their grandfathers’ birthdays is merely 
symbolical of their inventiveness along merely pacific lines. 
The preference for daintiness over power in art has a physical 
basis in man’s lessened vitality and mellowed instincts, and 
the preference for reasonableness over aggressiveness in philo- 
sophy may be actually traceable to the rounded chin and the 
amorphous face. 

So also have the contempt for physical prowess and sports 
and the general dislike of the strenuous life intimately to do 
with man’s decreased bodily energy, especially in the city- 
living bourgeois class. This is easily observable in a street car 
crowd or a faculty meeting, where Europeans and Chinese 
are placed in a row side by side. Unhygienic forms of living 
and the general overeating on the part of the bourgeois 
Chinese account, in many cases, for the drooping -shoulders 
and the listless eye. The constitutional differences between 
European and Chinese children at school age are unmistakable. 
On the athletic field, it is invariably found that boys who have 
a European father or mother distinguish themselves by their 
greater swiftness, agility and general exuberance of energy, 
while they seldom excel in tests of endursince and never in 
scholastic attainments. The much vaunted bossing of the 
Hankow Nationalist Government in 1927 by a man called 
Borodin is due to the simple fact that the energetic Russian, who 
is taking merely a second-rate place at home, did three times 
the work of a Chinese official, and could talk the Chinese 
leaders to sleep until the latter had to give in in order to be let 
alone. 

Many Europeans in Shanghai wonder why they are dropped 
by their Chinese friends without realizing the simple reason 
that the latter are not able to stand the strain of a long and 
exciting conversation, especially when it is in a foreign language. 
Many a Sino-European partnership, matrimonial or commercial, 
has been wrecked on the European’s impatience with Chinese 
stodgy smu^ess and the Chinaman’s impatience with the 
European’s inability to keep still. The way in which American 
jazz-band conductors shake their knees and European passen- 
gers pace a steamship deck is, to the Chinese, highly ridiculous. 



24 my country and my people 

With the exception of Chiang Kaishek and T. V. Soong, th« 
Chinese leaders do not “work like a horse”; they simply 
work like civilized human beings, where life is regarded as 
not worth the bother of too much human effort, and eventually 
if Chiang Kaishek and T. V. Soong come out on top, it will be 
just on account of their greater stamina and capacity for 
drudgery. It was T. V. Soong who, using a Chinese idiom, 
announced that he was “as strong as an ox” when he resigned, 
and failed to give diabetes or hardened liver or tired nerves 
for his political resignation, which all the rest of the Chinese 
officials unashamedly do. A list of the physical and mental 
ailments, from wrecked stomachs and overworked kidneys to 
shattered nerves and muddled heads, publicly announced by 
the oflBcials during their political sicknesses, most of which are 
genuine, would cover all the departments and wards of a 
modem hospital. 

With the exception of the late Sun Yatsen, the Chinese 
leaders, first-rate scholars all, do not keep up their reading and 
do not write. A work like Trotzky’s autobiography by a 
Chinese leader is simply unimaginable, and even a manifestly 
lucrative first-class biography of Sim Yatsen has not yet been 
written by a Chinese, almost a decade after the great leader’s 
death, nor are there adequate biographies of Tseng Kuofan or 
Li Hungchang or Yiian Shihkai. 

It seems the sipping of tea in the yamen and the interminable 
talking and eating of melon seeds at home have consumed all 
our scholars’ time. Facts like these explain why gem-Hke verses, 
dainty essays, short prefaces to fiiends’ works, funeral sketches 
of friends’ lives and brief descriptions of travels comprise the 
works of ninety-five per cent of the famous Chinese authors. 
When one cannot be powerful, one must choose to be dainty, 
and when one cannot be aggressive, one has to make a virtue 
of reasonableness. Only once in a while do we meet a SsGma 
Ch ien or a Cheng Ch’iao or a Ku Yenwu, whose prodigious 
labours suggest to us the indefatigable bodily energy of a 
Balzac or a Victor Hugo. That is what two thousand years of 
kowtowing could do to a nation. 

^ A study of the hair and skin of the people also seems to 
mdicate what must be considered results of millpriTiiiiTriQ of 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


25 

civilized indoor living. The general lack or extreme paucity 
of beard on man’s face is one instance of such effect, a fact 
which makes it possible for most Chinese men not to know the 
use of a personal razor. Hair on men’s chests is unknown, and 
a moustache on a woman’s face, not so rare in Europe, is out 
of the question in China. On good authority from medical 
doctors, and from references in writing, one knows that a 
perfectly bare mons veneris is not uncommon in Chinese women. 
The pores of the skin are finer than those of the Europeans, 
with the result that Chinese ladies, on the whole, have more 
delicate complexions than have European ladies, and their 
muscles are considerably more flabby, an ideal consciously 
cultivated through the institution of footbinding, which has 
other sex appeals. The Chinese are evidently aware of this 
effect, for in Hsinfeng, Kwangtung, keepers of poultry yards 
keep their chickens shut up for life in a dark coop, without 
room for movement, giving us the Hsinfeng chicken, noted for 
its extreme tenderness. Glandular secretions from the skin 
must have correspondingly decreased, for the Chinese explain 
the foreigners’ habit of taking their (imagined) daily baths by 
their comparatively stronger bodily odour. Perhaps the most 
marked difference is in the loss of the full, rich resonant quality 
in the Chinese voice, compared with that of the Europeans. 

While facts regarding the senses are not to my knowledge 
available, there is no reason to suppose a deterioration in the 
fine use of the ears and the eyes. The refined olfactory sense 
is reflected in the Chinese cuisine and in the fact that, in Peking, 
one speaks of kissing a baby as ‘‘smelling” a baby, which is 
what is done actually. The Chinese literary language has also 
many equivalents of the French odeur de femme^ like “flesh 
odour” and “fragrance from marble (a woman’s body).” On 
the other hand, sensitiveness to cold and heat and pain and 
general noise seems to be much more blunt in the Chinese 
than in the white man. One is well trained for such hardness 
in the Chinese family communal living. Perhaps the one thing 
that compels admiration from Westerners is our nerves. While 
sensitiveness is often very refined along specialized lines — ^the 
obvious proof of this is the great beauty of Chinese handicraft 
products in general — ^there seems to be a corresponding coarse-* 



26 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

ness as regards response to pain and general suffering.^ The 
Chinese capacity for endurance in suffering is enormous. 


III. Infusion of New Blood 


But the Chinese people, as a race, did not survive merely 
on the strength of coarse nerves or of capacity for suffering. 
Actually, they survived on the sinolization® of Mongolian 
peoples. A kind of phylogenetic monkey-gland grafting took 
place, for one observes a new bloom of culture after each 
introduction of new blood. The brief sketch of the general 
constitution and physical condition of the Chinese people 
shows, not that they have entirely escaped the effects of long 
civilized living, but that they have developed traits which 
render them helpless at the hzmds of a fresher and more war- 
like race. Life with the Chinese seems to move on a slower, 
quieter level, the level of sedate hving, not the level of action 
and adventure, with corresponding mental and moral habits 
of a peaceful and negative character. This makes it easily 
understandable why periodic conquests from the North were 
inevitable. Politically, the nation has perished several times 
at the hands of these conquerors. The problem is then how, 
in the midst of this political subjugation, the nation remained 
as a nation; not how the nation warded off these military 
disasters, as Christendom stopped the advance of the Moslems 
at the battle of Tours, but how it survived these disasters and, in 
fact, profited from them by the infusion of new blood, without 
losing its racial individuality or cultural continuity. The 
national life, it seems, was organised on such a pattern that the 
loss of the pristine vigour did not mean the loss of racial stamina 
and power for resistance. The key to this racial stamina and 
power for resistence is the key to China ’s survivaJ. 


1 AithBT Smith's renowned Chinese Characteristics has a chapter on "The 
Absence of Comfort and Convenience," recounting his experience and ob- 
serrotio^ of Chinese dress, houses, pillows and beds, which all European 
refers find fusing. I ^ger it is ten times more amusing to Chinese refers 
to le^ of Arthur Smith s account of his sufieiings and discomforts. The white 
xnan s nerves axe undoubtedly degenerate. 

"aiS^tion*’' “ preferable to the atrocious 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 27 

The infusion of new blood must explain to a large extent the 
racial vigour that the Chinese people possess to-day. Historically, 
this occurs with such striking regularity, at the interval of 
every eight hundred years, as to lead one to suppose that 
actually a periodic regeneration of the race was necessary, and 
that it was the internal degeneration of the moral fibre of the 
people that brought about these periodic upheavals, rather 
than vice versa. Dr. J. S. Lee, in a striking paper on ‘The 
Periodic Recurrence of Internecine Wars in China,” ^ has 
made a statistical study of these occurrences, which reveal an 
exact parallelism in these cycles of peace and disorder which 
“far exceeds the Hmit of probability” and is “perhaps too 
exact to be expected from the proceedings of human affairs.” 

For the striking fact is that Chinese history can be con- 
veniently divided into cycles of eight hundred years. Each 
cycle begins with a short-lived and mihtarily strong dynasty, 
which unified China after centuries of internal strife. Then 
follow four or five hundred years of peace, with one change of 
dynasty, succeeded by successive waves of wars, resulting soon 
in the removal of the capital from the North to the South. 
Then came secession and rivalry between North and South 
with increasing intensity, followed by subjugation under a 
foreign rule, which ended the cycle. History then repeats itself 
and with the unification of China again under Chinese rule 
there is a new bloom of culture. 

The parallelism of events within each cycle unfolded itself 
with an unreasonable mechanical exactness as to time and 
sequence. Dr. Lee mentions, for instance, the undertaking of a 
great engineering feat which was repeated with fatal regularity 
and at the exact stage in each cycle, namely, immediately at 
the beginning of a new bloom of culture: for the first cycle, the 
building of the Great Wall under the Ch'in Dynasty and the 
colossal palaces, the Ofangkung^ which were soon subjected to 
a conflagration lasting three months; for the second cycle, the 
building of the Grand Canal under the Sui Emperor, who had 
also magnificent palaces, noted for their grandeur and luxury; 
and for the third cycle, the rebuilding of the Great Wall, in 
which form it has survived to the present day, the opening up 

1 The China Journal of Science and Arts, March and April, 1931. 



28 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

of several new canals and dams, and the building of the city 
of Peking under the Emperor Yunglo of the Ming Dynasty, who 
was also famous for his great Yunglo Library. 

These cycles comprise: (i) from the Ch’in Dynasty to the 
end of the Six Dynasties and the Tartar invasion (221 b.c.- 

A. D. 588) covering about 830 years; (2) from the Sui Dynasty 
to the Mongol invasion (589-1367), covering about 780 years; 
and (3) tbe modern cycle from the Ming Dynasty to the present 
time, a cycle which is yet uncompleted, but which has so far 
unfolded itself in the last six hundred years with amazing 
fidelity to the previous pattern. The peace of five hundred 
years which was granted us under the Ming and Manchu 
Dynasties seems to have run its due course, and with the 
Taiping Rebellion in the 1850’s, which marked the first big 
wave of internecine wars, we are on the crescendo of disorder 
and of internecine strife, which so far has lived up to its tradi- 
tion in the removal of the capital firom Peking to Nainking 
in 1927. 

It is almost prophetic to note that a division between North 
and South and the subjugation of Northern China by a foreign 
race for the outstanding two hundred years have not yet 
come.i 

The following diagrams are reproduced here partly for their 
intrinsic interest, and partiy because they are the best short 
summary of China’s political history of over two thousand 
years within the scope of a printed page. The curves represent 
the frequency of wars in China proper. 

Dr. Lee also mentions the fact that the same parallelism may 
be observed in the Chou Period preceding the first cycle in the 
diagram. The Chou Dynasty, which represented the first bloom 
of Chinese culture, lasted officially 900 years, beginning in the 
year 1122 B.c. After the first four hundred and fifty years of 
comparative peace and expansion inside China, the capital 
was moved east owing to pressure from the north-west in 770 

B. a., from which date on we see increasing wars and strifes 
among the kingdoms, with the central government steadily 

1 A mixture of Chinese and Japanese blood, though very rare, has already 
produced two rafher noteworthy Chinese, Koxinga, a good general, carrying 
on a losing campaign against the Manchus, and Su Manshu, a delicate poet in 
the beginning of the present century. 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


29 



First Cycle 
(221 B.C.-A.D. 588) 
c , 830 yeaxs 



Second Cycle 
(589-1367) 
c, 780 yeaxs 


D 





30 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 



Modem Cycle 
(1368 to the present) 

losing its control over the feudal lords, giving us the Ck’unckHu 
Period of Confucius’ Annals (722-481 b.c.) and the later 
Chankuo Period or the Period of the “Warring Kingdoms” 
(402-221 B.c.) with Ch’u constantly extending its territory 
to virtually the whole southern part of the then civilized 
China. The cycle was then closed with the conquest and 
reunification of the whole of China by a tribe with a strong 
mixture of barbarian blood and foreign customs, led by the 
great Ch’in Emperor. 

Facts like these call for an explanation, ethnological, 
economic or climatic. Over-population, which in its nature 
can be regularly reached in four or five hundred years of peace, 
seems to be an important factor. Peace and culture in any 
country in the world for over five hundred years are unknown 
to history, and there is no reason 'why China should be an 
exception. Yet the review of China’s literary history seems to 
oflTer another obvious explanation. There was a decadence of 
mo^ fibre reflected in poetry and literature during these 
periods of northern and southern secession and rivalry, as 
already seen in the poems quoted above in this chapter. The 
period of northern invasion in the first cycle, the so-called 




THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


31 

Six Dynasties, from Eastern Chin to the unification of China 
under Sui, during which North China was overrun with 
barbaric conquerors, and the period of northern invasion in the 
second cycle, from the Southern Sung Dynasty to the Mongol 
Dynasty inclusive, seem to have corresponded with periods of 
effeminacy of living and decadence of literary style, the first 
period noted for its artificial and flowery ssuliu euphuistic prose, 
and the second for its effeminate sentimental poetry. One 
observes, in fact, not a paucity but an over-abundance of 
words, played out to their finest nuances, with no more the 
smell of the soil, but the decadent, cultivated, super-refined 
flavour of court perfume. The Chinese showed a certain 
fin-de-sikle delight in the sounds of words, and an extreme 
refinement in literary and artistic criticism, and in aristocratic 
habits of living. 

For it was in these periods that painting and calligraphy 
flourished, and aristocratic families rose and established them- 
selves to carry on the artistic tradition. Chinese literary 
criticism first became conscious of itself in the Six Dynasties, 
and Wang Hsichih, the first and greatest calligraphist, who was 
born of a great aristocratic family, lived in this period. Political 
weakness and disgrace somehow coincided with artistic 
refinement, and southern China was ruled in these periods by 
kings who could not keep their thrones secure but could write 
exquisite verse. Such ruler-poets were Liang Wuti, Nant’ang 
Houchu, and Ch’en Houchu, all of them kings of extremely 
short-lived dynasties and writers of tender love lyrics. The 
Emperor Huichung of the Southern Sung Dynasty was also 
a noted painter. 

Yet it was in these periods that the germ for the racial 
revival was laid. For the northern conquerors remained 
conquerors only in oflBcial power, the substrata remaining 
Chinese. The great Northern Wei Dynasty, whose rulers were 
of the Sienpei race, not only adopted Chinese culture but also 
freely intermarried with the Chinese. So were the so-called 
Kin (Manchu) kingdoms in the Sung Dynasty largely Chinese. 
A fermenting process was at work. Even culturally, these 
periods were periods of penetration of foreign influence, 
notably that of Buddhism and Indian sculpture in the end of 



32 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the first cycle, and of Mongol drama and music in that of the 
second cycle. The clearest effect of this ethnological mixture 
is perhaps to be found in the linguistic and physical traits of 
the modern northern Chinese, with altered tones and hardened 
consonants in the language, and a taller stature and a gay 
rustic humour in the people. It was this amalgamation of 
foreign blood that accounted for, to a large extent, the race’s 
long survival. 


IV. Cultural Stability 

Yet this does not explain all. The question remains how it 
was possible for the nation to survive these periodic political 
disasters and not be submerged by them, as old Rome was 
submerged under the Lombards. Wherein does that racial 
stamina and capacity for absorbing foreign blood consist? 
Only by going deeper into these problems can one gain a real 
understanding of the situation as it stands to-day. 

The so-called racial stamina and racial vitality, which in 
spite of the retrograde character of the Chinese bourgeois 
class enabled the Chinese people to survive political disasters 
and regenerate itself through foreign blood, is partly con- 
stitutional and partly cultural. Among the cultural forces 
making for racial stability must be counted first of all the 
Chinese family system, which was so well-defined and organized 
as to make it impossible for a man to forget where his lineage 
belonged. This form of social immortality, which the Chinese 
prize above all earthly possessions, has something of the charac- 
ter of a religion, which is enhanced by the ritual of ancestor 
worship, and the consciousness of it has penetrated deep into 
the Chinese soul. 

Such a well-organized and religiously conceived family 
system was of tremendous force when the Chinese race was 
thrown into contact with a foreign people with a less well- 
defined family consciousness. Barbaric tribes or children of 
mixed parentage were all too anxious to join the family and 
claim part of the family immortality, indulging in the luxurious 
feeling that when one dies, one does not die, but one’s self lives 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


33 

on in the great stream of the family life. The family system also 
acted as a direct incentive to quantitative reproduction, for 
in order that the Lin branch should survive, it is necessary that 
many Lin babies should come into this world. 

Perhaps it was due entirely to the family system that the 
Chinese were able to absorb the Jews of Honan, who to-day are 
so thoroughly sinolized that their Jewish tradition of not eating 
pork has become a mere memory. The race consciousness of 
the Jews can be shamed into oblivion only by the greater race 
consciousness of the family-minded Chinese, and it was no 
mean accomplishment in the ethnological field. With a less 
race-conscious and race-proud people than the Jews, like the 
northern Tartars, for instance, it is easy to see that the Chinese 
native inhabitants were placed in a great advantage over their 
foreign invaders. It is in this sense that Manchuria will remain 
Chinese in spite of all Japanese machinations; the political 
order may be changed, and rulers may come and rulers may 
go, but the Chinese families will remain Chinese families. 

Another cultural force making for social stability was the 
complete absence of established classes in China, and the 
opportunity open for all to rise in the social scale through the 
imperial examination system. While the family system 
accounted for their survival through fecundity, the imperial 
examination system effected a qualitative selection, and 
enabled talent to reproduce and propagate itself. This system, 
which was started in the T’ang Dynasty and based on the 
ultimate Chinese belief that no man is bom noble, ^ had its 
rudiments in the system of civil service and official recom- 
mendations in the Han Dynasty. After the Wei and Ch’in 
Dynasties (third and fourth centuries a.d.) a change in the 
control of selection for office brought about a system favouring 
influential families, so much so that it was stated that ‘'there 
were no poor scholars in the higher classes and no sons of 
oflficial families in the lower classes.”® This favoured the 
growth of aristocratic families in the Ch’in Dynasty. 

With the imperial examination system in the T’ang Dynasty 
(seventh to ninth centuries inclusive) a system was put into 

1 The Chinese for this is, “There is no blood in premiers and generals.” 

2 These refer to the “nine classes” of scholars in the Ch'in Dynasty. 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


34 


effect which, however it was modified in the following dynasties 
maintained down to 1905 an open door for all to rise from 
poverty to power and fame. While the tests were necessarily 
somewhat mechanical in nature, and were not devised to 
attract real genius, they were suitable for selecting talent, and 
might be regarded as intelligence tests. Such a system made 
possible a constant infiltration of talent from the country to 
the cities, thereby ma kin g up for the loss of racial vigour in the 
upper classes and maintaining a cycle of internal regeneration 
so much needed for social health. Viewed across the centuries 
it must have had a selective effect on the quality of the ruling 
class that made for social stability. 

What seems still more important is the fact that the ruling 
class not only came from the country but also returned to the 
country, as the rural mode of life was always regarded as the 
ideal. This rural ideal in art, philosophy and life, so deeply 
imbedded in the Chinese general consciousness, must account 
in a large measure for the racial health to-day. Did the creators 
of &e Chmese pattern of life do more wisely than they knew in 
maintaining a level between civilization and the primitive 
habits of living? Was it their sound instinct which guided them 
to choose the agricultural civilization, to hate mechanical 
ingenuity and love the simple ways of life, to invent the com- 
forts of life without being enslaved by them, and to preach 
from generation to generation in their poetry, painting and 
literature the “return to the farm”? 


For to be close to nature is to have physical and moral health. 
Man in the coimtry does not degenerate; only man in the cities 
does. To scholars and well-to-do families in the cities, per- 
sistently the call of the good earth comes. The family letters 
and instructions of weE-known scholars abound in such counsel 
and reved an important aspect of the Chinese civilization, an 
a^ect which subdy but'profoundly accounts for its long sur- 
at random from the extremely precious family 
L Cheng Panch lao to his younger brother, letters that 
should be counted among the greatest in the world: 

The house you bought is weE-endosed and indeed suitable 
or residence, only I feel the courtyard is too smaE, and when 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 35 

you look at the sky, it is not big enough. With my unfettered 
nature, I do not like it. Only a hundred steps north from this 
house, there is the Parrot Bridge, and another thirty steps 
from the Bridge is the Plum Tower, with vacant spaces all 
around. When I was drinking in this Tower in my young 
days, I used to look out and see the willow banks and the little 
wooden bridge with decrepit huts and wild flowers against a 
background of old city walls, and was quite fascinated by it. 
If you could get fifty thousand cash, you could buy a big lot 
for me to build my cottage there for my latter days. My 
intention is to build an earthen wall around it, and plant lots 
of bamboos and flowers and trees. I am going to have a 
garden path of paved pebbles leading from the gate to the 
house door. There will be two rooms, one for the parlour, 
one for the study, where I can keep books, paintings, brushes, 
ink-slabs, wine-kettle and tea service, and where I can discuss 
poetry and literature with some good friends and the younger 
generation. Behind this will be the family Uving-rooms, 
with three main rooms, two kitchens and one servants’ room. 
Altogether there will be eight rooms, all covered with grass- 
sheds, and I shall be quite content. Early in the morning 
before sunrise, I could look east and see the red glow of the 
morning clouds, and at sunset, the sun will shine from behind 
the trees. When one stands upon a high place in the court- 
yard, one can already see the bridge and the clouds and 
waters in the distance, and when giving a party at night, 
one can see the lights of the neighbours outside the wall. 
This will be only thirty steps to your house on the south, and 
will be separated from the little garden on the east by a small 
creek. So it is quite ideal. Some may say, “This is indeed 
very comfortable, only there may be burglars.” They do 
not know that burglars are also but poor people. I would 
open the door and invite them to come in, and discuss with 
them what they may share. Whatever there is, they can take 
away, and if nothing will really suit them, they may even 
take away the great Wang Hsienchih’s old capret to pavm it 
for a hundred cash. Please, my younger brother, bear this in 
mind, for this is your stupid brother’s provision for spending 
ahappy old age. I wonder whether I may have what I so desire. 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


36 

This is typical of the sentiment in Chinese literature. This 
rural ideal of Cheng Panch’iao’s is as much based on his 
poetic feeling of common brotherhood with the poor peasant, 
which comes natural to a Taoistic soul, as the rural ideal of 
Tseng Kuofan’s is based on the desire for the preservation for 
the family, and closely connected with the Confucian family 
system. For the rural ideal of life is part of the social system 
which makes the family the unit and part of the politico-cultural 
system which makes the village the unit. It may be amusing to 
learn that Tseng Kuofan, the great general and first minister of 
his times, in his family letters to his children and nephews con- 
tinually warned them against extravagant habits and advised 
them to plant vegetables, rear pigs and manure their own 
farms, yet such advice on frugality and industry was expressly 
given with the aim that the family prosperity might be prolonged . 

If simplicity can keep a family integrity long, it should do the 
same for the national integrity. For to Tseng Kuofan, it was 
plain that “the ojB&cial families whose children learn expensive 
habits of living, prosper only for a generation or two: the 
merchant families who are industrious and frugal may prosper 
for three or four generations, the families who till the ground 
and study books and have simple and careful habits prosper 
for five or six generations, while the families who have the 
virtues of filial piety and friendliness prosper for eight or ten 
generations.” 

It is therefore entirely easy to understand why Tseng regards 
“the keeping of fish, the keeping of pigs, the planting of bam- 
boos and the planting of vegetables” as “the four things which 
should not be neglected. On the one hand, we may thus keep 
up the tradition of our forefathers, and, on the other hand, one 
will feel a sense of life and growth when looking in over our 
walls, and a sense of prosperity when entering our court. 
Even if you should have to spend a little more money and hire 
a few more helpers, the money spent on these four things will 
be well spent. . . . Fromthesefourthings, you can see whether 
a family is prospering or is going down.” 

And somehow from the family instructions of Yen Chiht’ui 
( 53 i‘' 59 ^)> Fan Ghungyen (989-1052), Ghu Hsi (1130-1200), 
down to those of Gh^en Hungmu (1696-1771) and Tseng 



THE CHINESE PEOPLE 


37 

Kuofan (i8i 1-1872), this family ideal ofindustry and frugality 
and living the simple life persisted and was recognized as the 
soundest moral heritage of the nation. The family system 
somehow wove itself into the rural pattern of life and could not 
be separated from it. Simplicity was a great word among the 
Greeks, and simplicity, shunp^o^ was a great word among the 
Chinese. It was as if man knew the benefits of civilization and 
knew also the dangers of it. Man knew the happiness of the 
joys of life, but also was aware of its ephemeral nature, fearful 
of the jealousy of the gods, and was willing to take the joys 
that were simpler but would last longer. For to enjoy too 
many good things of life was, according to the Chinese, to 
chehfo^ or decrease one’s lot of happiness in this life. Therefore 
"‘one should be just as careful in choosing one’s pleasures as 
in avoiding calamities.” “Choose the lighter happiness,” said 
a scholar at the end of the Ming Dynasties, and somehow there 
was an echo of consent in the Chinese breasts. For human 
happiness is so precarious that the retreat to nature and 
implicity is the best safeguard for it. It must be so, and the 
Chinese knew it by instinct. They wanted survival for their 
amilies, and they achieved it for their nation. 


V. Racial Youth 

It would seem, therefore, that the Chinese, as a people, 
ivoided the dangers of civic deterioration by a natural distrust 
)f civilization and by keeping close to primitive habits of life. 
This might suggest that the so-called Chinese civilization must 
)e understood in a greatly modified sense, that it was a civiliza- 
ion in love with primitivism itself and was not quite ready to 
ay good-bye to it. Certainly it was not a civilization that had 
guaranteed the people peace without intermittent periods of 
)loodshed and disorder, or that had made wars and famines 
ind floods impossible. 

That a country after two thousand years of comparatively 
dvilized living could furnish living material for such a story as 
ill Men Are Brothers^ when the eating of human flesh, though 
•are, was still possible, certainly reveals in a measure the 



my country and my people 


38 

mystery of this enigma of social continuity against the havoc 
of civilization. Sung Chiang, Li Kuei and the host of robust 
robbers on the top of Liangshanpo, although coming almost 
fifteen centuries after Confucius, do not suggest to us represen- 
tatives of an outworn civilization, but rather happy children 
of a people in the twilight of a dawning culture, when security 
of life was yet unknown. It seems as if the race, instead of 
reaching full maturity with Confucius, was really enjoying a 
prolonged childhood. 

This brings us to the extremely interesting question of the 
racial constitution of the Chinese race: whether, as an ethno- 
logical entity, it reveals not so much the characteristics of an 
old people as those of a people in many respects still in its 
racial youth and far from reaching racial maturity. A distinc- 
tion may be made by saying that the Chinese are culturally old 
but racially young, a theory which has found support among 
some of the modern anthropologists. Griffith Taylor^ thus 
classifies the Chinese among the youngest strata in the evolution 
of the human race, according to his migration-zone scheme, 
Havelock Ellis also characterizes the Asiatics as being racially 
infantile, in the sense of retaining some of the adaptability, 
flexibility and pristine all-round shunp^o nature of childhood 
before reaching specialized development. Perhaps ^'3. pro- 
longed childhood” is the better term, for infantilism and 
arrested development or stagnation are misleading terms. 

Cultural stagnation of the Chinese is only a misconception 
of one looking at China from the outside, without knowledge of 
her inner life. One needs only to think of the late development 
of the Chinese porcelain, which did not come, as many 
foreigners imagine, from the time of Confucius, but from as late 
as the tenth century, and was then only slowly developed until 
it reached its perfection under K’anghsi and Ch’ienlimg in the 
seventeenth century, almost before our eyes. Progress in 
lacquer, printing, and painting was slow, but each dynasty 
brought it a step forward.^ The renowned Chinese style of 
painting did not come into being until the last thousand years 

2- Environment and Race^ Oxford University Press, 1927. 

2 See ^e ei^glitening article by V. K. Ting: **How China Acquired Her 
Civilization/’ in A Chinese Symposium (published by the Institute of Pacij5.c 
Relations), 



39 


THE CHINESE PEOPLE 

of the Chinese national life, a late period for an old civiliaadon. 
And in literature, one needs only to flunk of the 'aten« of 
niose epic and tale of wonder, for the Shah 
Inihtri) and Hsi/udi must be consider^ such, and they were 
certainly perfected after the fourteenth centu^, almost two 
thousand years after Confucius and Laotse had hvcd an 

died 

The epic was strangely unknown in ancient Chna, or it was 
irretrievably lost without any existing trace in hteraturc. inc 
narrative poem came only in the Han Dynasty, and there were 
not many of them. The drama came into popularity only with 
the Mongol Dynasty in the eleventh century. Tales of ima^- 
nation like the HsiyuM came about the same time, when the 
Chinese imagination was stimulated by Buddhism. The novel 
as such really had a humble beginning only in the ninth century, 
had its mature development late in the fourteenth ^d nttcenth 
centuries (Ming) and reached its climax in the beginning ol the 
Manchu Dynasty with the Red Chamber Dream, a contemporary 
and Oriental counterpart of Clarissa Harlowe. Had China’s 
cultural life flowered and then ended a few centuries after 
Confucius as the Greek genius did, there would have been only 
some fine moral maxims and folk lyrics, and certainly none of 
China’s great paintings, novels and architecture to offer to 
the world. This sounds as if we are not watching the arrested 
development of a nation that reached its full bloom in its young 
Golden Age like Greece and Rome, but that we arc watching 
the prolonged childhood of a race that took millennium.^ to 
reach full development, and then is perhaps still courageous 
enough for further spiritual adventure. 



Chapter Two 

THE CHINESE CHARACTER 


I. Mellowness 

“CHARACTER” is a typically English word. Apart from the 
English, few nations have laid such stress on character in their 
ideal of education and manhood as the Chinese. The Chinese 
seem to be so preoccupied with it that in their whole philosophy 
they have not been able to think of anything else. Totally 
devoid of any extra-mundane interests, and without getting 
involved in any religious claptrap, this ideal of building of 
character has, through the influence of their literature, the 
theatre, and proverbs, permeated to the lowliest peasant, and 
provided him with a philosophy of life. But while the English 
word “character” suggests strength, courage, “guts,” and 
looking merely glum in moments of anger or disappointment, 
the Chinese word for “character” brings to us the vision of a 
mature man of mellow temperament, retaining an equanimity 
of mind under all circumstances, with a complete understanding 
not only of himself but of his fellow-men. 

The Sung philosophy has a tremendous confldence in the 
power and supremacy of the mind over emotions, and an 
overweening assurance that the human mind, through its 
understanding of oneself and of one’s fellow-men, is able to 
adjust itself to the most unfavourable circumstances and 
triumph over them. The Great Learning, the Confucian p rim er 
with which Chinese schoolboys used to begin their first lesson 
at school, , de%es the “great learning” as consisting of the 
attainment of a “clear character,” which is almost an impossible 
English expresaon, but by which is meant the illumination of 
understandiag, developed and cultivated through knowledge. 
A mellow understanding of life and of human nature is, and 
always has been, the Chinese ideal of character, and from that 

40 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 


41 

understanding other qualities are derived, such as pacifism, 
contentment, calm and strength of endurance which distinguish 
the Chinese character. Strength of character is really strength 
of the mind, according to the Gonfucianists. When a man has 
cultivated these virtues through mental discipline, we say he 
has developed his character. 

Very often these virtues are attained also through the help 
of Gonfucian fatalism. For contrary to the general belief, 
fatalism is a great source of peace and contentment. A 
beautiful and talented girl may rebel against an unsuitable 
marriage, but if the peculiar circumstances of her meeting 
with her fianc6 can convince her that it is the gods who have 
decreed the match, she can at once, through an act of under- 
standing, become a happy and contented wife. For the 
husband has in her eyes become a “predestined enemy,” and 
the Ghinese proverb says “predestined enemies will always 
meet in a narrow alleyway.” With that understanding, they 
can love and fight each other furiously ever after, knowing aU 
the time that the gods are looking on and causing them all 
this trouble. 

If we review the Ghinese race and try to picture their 
national characteristics, we shall probably find the following 
traits of character: (i) sanity, (2) simplicity, (3) love of nature, 
(4) patience, (5) indifiference, (6) old roguery, (7) fecundity, 
(8) industry, (9) frugality, (10) love of family life, (ii) pacifism, 
(12) contentment, (13) humour, (14) conservatism, and (15) 
sensuality. They are, on the whole, simple great qualities 
that would adorn any nation. ^ Some of these characteristics 
are vices rather than virtues, and others are neutral qualities; 
they are the weakness as well as the strength of the Ghinese 
nation. Too much mental sanity often clips imagination of 
its wings and deprives the race of its moments of blissful mad- 
ness; pacifism can become a vice of cowardice; patience, 
again, may bring about a morbid tolerance of evil; conservatism 

1 1 have not put down honesty, because all over the world farming people axe 
honest, and the repu^tion of the Chinese merchant for honesty is only a con- 
comitant of his provincial method of doing business, and a mere result of the 
predominance of the rural pattern and ideal of life. When Chinese are put in a 
seaport, they lose to a marked extent that pristine honesty and can be as 
dishonest as any Wall Street stock-jobber. 



42 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

may at times be a mere synonym for sloth and laziness, and 
fecundity may be a racial virtue but an individual vice. 

But all these qualities may be summed up in the word mellow- 
ness. They are passive qualities, suggestive of calm and passive 
strength rather than as youthful vigour and romance. They 
suggest the qualities of a civilization built for strength and 
endurance rather than for progress and conquest. For it is 
a civihzation which enables man to find peace under any 
circumstance, and when a man is at peace with himself, he 
cannot understand the youthful enthusiasm for progress and 
reform. It is the old culture of an old people who know life 
for what it is worth and do not strive for the unattainable. 
The supremacy of the Chinese mind flays its own hopes and 
desires, and by making the supreme realization that happiness 
is an unattainable bluebird and giving up the quest for it — 
“taking a step backwards,” as the Chinese expression goes — ^it 
finds happiness nestling in its own hand, almost strangled to 
death during the hot pursuit of an imagined shadow. As a Ming 
scholar puts it, “by losing that pawn, one wins the whole game.” 

This so-called mellowness is the result of a certain type of 
environment. In fact, all national qualities have an organic 
unity, which finds its explanation in the kind of social and 
political soil that nourishes them. For mellowness somehow 
grows naturally out of the Chinese environment as a peculiar 
variety of pear grows out of its natural soil. There are American- 
born Chinese, brought up in a difierent environment, who 
are totally devoid of the characteristics of the common Chinese, 
and who can break up a faculty meeting by the sheer force of 
their uncouth nasal twang and their direct forceful speech, 
a speech which knows no fine modulations. They lack that 
supreme, unique mellowness peculiar to the sons of Cathay. 
On the other hand, Chinese college youths are considerably 
more mature than American students of the same age, for 
even young Chinese freshmen in American universities cannot 
get interested in football and motor-cars. They have already 
other and more mature interests.^ Most probably they are 

1 It is exteemdy dangerous, therefore, to send fresh American college 
graduates out to China as missionaries and put them over Chinese teachers or 
preachers tmce ^ mature as themselves. Many of them have not even tasted 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 43 

already married. They have wives and families to think about, 
their parents to remember, and perhaps some cousins to help 
through school. Responsibility makes men sober, and a 
national cultural tradition helps them to think sanely about 
life at a period earlier than they could arrive at individually. 

But their mellowness does not come from books; it comes 
from a society which is apt to laugh young enthusiasm out of 
court. The Chinese have a certain contempt for young en- 
thusiasm and for new brooms that will sweep this universe 
clean. By laughing at that enthusiasm and at the belief that 
everything is possible in the world, Chinese society early 
teaches the young to hold their tongues while their elders are 
speaking. Very soon the Chinese youth learns this, and 
instead of being foolish enough to support any proposed 
scheme or socialistic venture, he learns to comment unfavour- 
ably upon it, pointing out all the possible difiiculties, and in 
that way gets his pass into mature society. Then, after coming 
back from Europe or America, he begins to manufacture 
tooth-paste and cdls it ‘'saving the country by industrialization’^ 
or he translates some American free verse and calls it “in- 
troduction of the Western culture.” And since he has usually 
a big family to support and some cousins for whom to secure 
positions, he cannot remain a school teacher if he is in the 
teaching profession, but must think of ways and means to rise 
higher, perhaps become a dean, and in that way become a good 
member of his family. That process of trying to rise higher 
teaches him some memorable lessons of life and human nature, 
and if he escapes all that experience and remains a round- 
eyed, innocent hot-headed young man at thirty, still en- 
thusiastic for progress and reform, he is either an inspired 
idiot or a confounded genius. 


II. Patience 

Let us take the three worst and most striking characteristics, 
patience, indifference and old roguery, and see how they 
arose. I believe that these are effects of culture and environ- 
ment and hence are not necessarily a part of the Chinese 



44 my country and my people 

mental make-up. They are here to-day because for thousands 
of years we have been living under certain cultural and social 
influences. The natural inference is that when these influences 
are removed, the qualities will also correspondingly diminish 
or disappear. The quality of patience is the result of racial 
adjustment to a condition where over-population and economic 
pressure leave very little elbow-room for people to move about, 
and is, in particular, a result of the family system, which 
is a miniature of Chinese society. Indifference is largely due 
to the lack of legal protection and constitutional guarantee for 
personal liberty. Old roguery is due, for lack of a better word, 
to the Taoistic view of life. Of course, all these qualities are 
products of the same environment, and it is only for the sake 
of clearness that one assigns any single cause for any resulting 
quality. 

That patience is a noble virtue of the Chinese people no one 
who knows them will gainsay. There is so much of this virtue 
that it has almost become a vice with them. The Chinese 
people have put up with more tyranny, anarchy and misrule 
than any Western people will ever put up with, and seem to 
have regarded them as part of the laws of nature. In certain 
parts of Szechuen, the people have been taxed thirty years in 
advance without showing more energetic protest than a half- 
audible cxnse in the privacy of the household. Christian 
patience would seem like petulance compared with Chinese 
patience, which is as unique as Chinese blue porcelain is 
imique. The world tourists would do well to bring home with 
them some of this Chinese patience along with Chinese blue 
porcelain, for true individuality cannot be copied. We submit 
to tyranny and extortion as small fish swim into the mouth 
of a big fish. Perhaps had our capacity for sufferance been 
smaller, our sufferings would also be less. As it is, this capacity 
for putting up with insults has been ennobled by the name of 
patience, and deliberately inculcated as a cardinal virtue by 
Gonfucian ethics. I am not saying that this patience is not 
a great quality of the Chinese people. Jesus said, ‘‘Blessed are 
the meek, for they shall inherit the earth, and I am not sure 
but that Chinese patience has enabled us to inherit half a 
continent and keep it. The Chinese also inculcate it consciouslv 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 45 

as a high moral virtue. As our saying goes, man who 
cannot tolerate small ills can never accomplish great things/^ 

The training school for developing this virtue is, however, 
the big family, where a large number of daughters-in-law, 
brothers-in-law, fathers and sons daily learn this virtue by 
trying to endure one another. In the big family, where a closed 
door is an offence, and where there is very little elbow-room 
for the individuals, one learns by necessity and by parental 
instruction from early childhood the need for mutual toleration 
and adjustments in human relationships. The deep, slow, 
everyday wearing effect on character can scarcely be over- 
estimated. 

There was once a prime minister, Chang Kungni, who was 
much envied for his earthly blessedness of having nine genera- 
tions living together under the same roof. Once the emperor, 
T’ang Kaochung, asked him the secret of his success, and the 
minister asked for a brush and paper, on which he wrote a 
hundred times the character ‘‘patience’’ or “endurance.” 
Instead of taking that as a sad commentary on the family 
system, the Chinese people have ever after envied his example, 
and the phrase “hundred patience” {po~jen) has passed into 
current moral proverbs which are written on red paper and 
pasted on all house-doors on New Year’s Day: ^^peaceableness 
brings good lucF^s ^^padence is the best family heritage^ etc. But 
so long as the family system exists and so long as society is 
buUt on the principle that a man is not an individual but 
attains his full being only in living in harmonious social 
relationships, it is easy to see how patience must be regarded 
as a supreme virtue and must grow naturally out of the social 
system. For in such a society, patience has a reason for 
existence. 


III. Indifference 

But if the Chinese people are unique in their patience, they 
are still more justly famous for their indifference. This, again, 
I believe, is a product of social environment. There is no more 
significant contrast than that between the parting instruction 



46 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

of Tom Brown’s mother in the English classic Tom BrowrCs 
School Days to “hold his head high and answer straight” and 
the traditional parting instruction of the Chinese mother that 
her son should “not meddle with public affairs.” This is so 
because, in a society where legal protection is not given to 
personal rights, indifference is always safe and has an attractive 
side to it difficult for Westerners to appreciate. 

I think this indifference is not a natural characteristic of 
the people, but is a conscious product of our culture, deliberately 
inculcated by our old-world wisdom under the special cir- 
cumstances. Taine once said that vice and virtue are products 
Hke sugar and vitriol. Without taking such an absolute view, 
one can nevertheless subscribe to the general statement that 
any virtue will be more generally encouraged in a society 
where that virtue is easily seen to be “good,” and is more 
likely to be generally accepted as part of life. 

The Chinese people take to indifference as Englishmen take 
to umbrellas, because the political weather always looks a 
little, ominous for the individual who ventures a little too far 
out alone. In other words, indifference has a distinct “survival- 
value” in China. Chinese youths are as public-spirited as 
foreign youths, and Chinese hot-heads show as much desire 
to “meddle with public affairs” as those in any other country. 
But somewhere between their twenty-fifth and their thirtieth 
years, they all become wise (“ArM kuai liao^' as we say), 
and acquire this indifference which contributes a lot to their 
mellowness and culture. Some learn it by native intelligence, 
and others by getting their fingers burned once or twice. All 
old people play safely because all old rogues have learned the 
benefits of indifference in a society where personal rights are 
not guaranteed and where getting one’s fingers burned once is 
bad enough. 

The “survival-value” of indifference consists, therefore, in 
the fact that in the absence of protection of personal rights, it 
is highly unsafe for a man to take too much interest in public 
affairs, or “idle affairs,” as we call them. When Shao P’iao- 
p’ing and Lin Poshui, two of our most daring journalists, 
got shot by a Manchurian war-lord in Peiping in 1926 without 
even a trial, the other journalists naturally learned the virtue 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 47 

of this indifference in no time, and “became wise/’ The most 
successful journalists in China are those who have no opinion 
of their own. Like all Chinese gentlemen, and like the Western 
diplomats, they are proud of committing themselves to no 
opinion on life in general, and on the crying question of the 
hour in particular.^ What else can they do? One can be 
public-spirited when there is a guarantee for personal rights, 
and one’s only look-out is the libel law. When these rights are 
not protected, however, our instinct of self-preservation tells 
us that indifference is our best constitutional guarantee for 
personal liberty. 

In other words, indifference is not a high moral virtue but 
a social attitude made necessary by the absence of legal 
protection. It is a form of self-protection, developed in the 
same manner as the tortoise develops its shell. The famous 
Chinese apathetic gaze is only a self-protective gaze, acquired 
by a lot of culture and self-discipline. This is borne out by 
the fact that Chinese robbers and bandits, who do not depend 
upon legal protection, do not develop this indifference, but 
are the most chivalrous and public-spirited class of people 
we know in China. Chinese chivalry, under the name of 
^^haohsieh^^^ is invariably associated with the robbers as in 
Shuihu. The vicarious pleasure derived in reading the life 
and adventures of such heroes accounts for the popularity of 
such novels, in the same way that Elinor Glyn’s popularity 
was to be accounted for by the large number of old maids in 
the United States. The strong, therefore, are public-spirited 
because they can afford to be so, and the meek who constitute 
the majority of the people are indifferent because they need to 
protect themselves. 

Historically, this could be strikingly proved in the history 
of the Wei and Ch’in Dynasties, when scholars became admired 
for their indifference to national affairs, resulting soon in the 
sapping of national strength and the conquest of North China 
by barbarians. It was the fashion for scholars of the Wei and 
Ch’in Dynasties to give themselves up to drinking, “light 

1 Tiie oldest and biggest daily paper in China, Shun Poo, formerly enjoyed 
the reputation of editorially handling (i) foreign and not domestic questions; 
( 2 ) distant and not immediate topics, and ( 3 ) general and not specific subjects, 
like '"The Importance of Diligence,” "The Value of Truth,” etc. 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


48 

conversation’’ (chHngfan)^ and dreaming about Taoist fairies 
and discovering the pill of immortality. This period seemed to 
be politically the lowest period of the Chinese race since the 
Chou and Han times, representing the end of a progressive 
degeneration of the race until, for the first time in its history, 
China was submerged under barbarian rule. Was this cult of 
indifference natural, and if not, how was it brought about? 
History reveals this to us in no uncertain terms. 

Toward the end of the Han Dynasty, the Chinese scholars 
were not indifferent. In fact, political criticism was at its 
height during this period. Leading scholars and '‘university” 
students, numbering over thirty thousand, were often em- 
broiled over questions of current politics, and dared the wrath 
of the eunuchs and the Emperor in their intrepid attacks on 
government policies or the conduct of members of the imperial 
household. Yet, because of the absence of constitutional 
protection, this movement ended in complete suppression at 
the hands of the eunuchs. Two or three hundred scholars and 
sometimes their whole families were sentenced to death, exile 
or imprisonment. This occurred in the years a.d. 166-169, 
and was known as the tangku^ or "party cases.” This was 
carried out in such a thorough fashion and on such a grand 
scale that the whole movement was cut short, and its re- 
maining effects were felt for over a century afterward. Then 
came the reaction and the cult of indifference and the develop- 
ing crazes for wine, women, poetry and Taoistic occultism. 
Some of the scholars went into the mountains and built them- 
selves mudhouses without a door, receiving their food through 
a window till their death. Others disguised themselves as 
woodcutters and begged their relatives to save them from 
recognition by refraining from making calls. 

Immediately after that came the seven poets, or the "Pl^iade 
of the Bamboo Grove.” Liu Ling, a great poet, could go on 
a drunken fit for months. He used to travel on a cart with a 
jug of wine, a shovel and a grave-digger, giving the latter the 
order as they started: ^^Bury me when I am dead! — anywhere^ 
any time!^ People admired him and called him "clever.” All 
scholars affected either extreme rusticity or extreme sensuality 
and extreme superficiality. Another great poet, Ytian Hsien, 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 49 

had illicit relations with his maid. When he learned at a 
public feast that his wife had sent the maid away, he immedi- 
ately borrowed a horse from a friend and galloped off after 
the maid until he overtook her and carried her back on horse- 
back in the presence of all the guests. These were the people 
who became admired for their cleverness. People admired 
them as a small tortoise admires the thick shell of a big tor- 
toise. 

Here we seem to have laid our finger on the fatal disease 
of the body politic, and to see the origin of that indifference 
which explains the proverbial inability of the Chinese people 
to organize themselves. It would seem that the curing of the 
disease is simple, by having constitutional protection for the 
people’s civil rights. Yet no one has seen the far-reaching 
consequences of this. No one desires it. No one sincerely 
wants it. 


IV. Old Roguery 

Perhaps the most striking quality of the Chinese people is 
what, for want of a better term, must be termed its ‘^old 
roguery.” It is the most dfficult characteristic to explain to a 
Westerner, and yet at the same time it is most profound, in 
that it goes back directly to a different philosophy of life. 
Compared with this view of life, the whole fabric of Western 
civilization seems extremely raw and immature. When a 
young man tries to drag his old grandfather from his fireside for 
a sea bath on a September morning and fails to do so, the young 
man will perhaps show angered astonishment, while the old 
man will merely show a smile of amusement. That smile is 
the smile of the old rogue, and it is difficult to say which one 
is right. All this bustle and restlessness of the spirit of the young 
man — ^where will it all lead to? And all this enthusiasm and 
self-assertion and struggle and war and hot-headed nationalism 
— ^where will it all end, and what is it all for? Perhaps it will 
be futile to find an answer to the question, and equally futile 
to force one party to accept the view of the other, since it is all 
a matter of age. 



50 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

An old rogue is a man who has seen a lot of life, and who is 
materialistic, nonchalant, and sceptical of progress. At its 
best, this old roguery gives us mellowness and good temper, 
which in old men make many girls prefer them for husbands. 
For if life is worth anything, it is that it teaches a lesson of 
kindliness. The Chinese people have arrived at this point of 
view, not by having found any religious sanction for it, but 
from a profound observation and a knowledge of the vicissi- 
tudes of life. Typical of this extremely shrewd philosophy is 
the following famous dialogue of two poet-monks of the T’ang 
Dynasty: 

Once Hanshan asked Shihteh: “If one slanders me, 
insults me, sneers at me, despises me, injures me, hates 
me, and deceives me, what should I do?” Shihteh replied: 
“Only bear with him, yield to him, let him, avoid him, 
endure him, respect him, and ignore him. And after a few 
years^ you just look at Mm.” 

In myriad other forms, this spirit of Laotse finds expression 
in our literature, poetry and proverbs. Whether the expression 
be “By losing that pawn, one wins the whole game,” or “Of 
all the thirty-six alternatives, running away is the best,” or 
“A true hero never incurs present risk,” or “Taking a step 
backwards in your thought,” this attitude toward life’s problems 
has permeated the whole fibre of Chinese thought. Life is 
then full of second-thoughts and of “the thirty-sixth alter- 
natives"; its angularities are smoothed off, and one achieves 
that true mellowness which is the mark of Chinese culture. 

At its worst, this old roguery, which is the highest product of 
Chinese intelligence, works against idealism and action. It 
shatters all desire for reform, laughs at the futility of human 
effort and renders the Chinese people incapable of idealism 
and action. It has a strange way of reducing all human 
activities to the level of the alimentary canal and other simple 
biologic needs. Mencius was a great rogue when he declared 
the chief desires of mankind to be food and women, or aliment- 
ation and reproduction. The late President Li Ytlanhung was 
also a great rogue when he pronounced the heartily accepted 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 5I 

dictum of Chinese political philosophy and formula for solving 
all Chinese party differences by saying ^^When there is rice^ let 
everybody share President Li was a grim realist without 
knowing it, and he spoke wiser than he knew when he was thus 
giving an economic interpretation of current Chinese history. 
The economic interpretation of history is not new to the 
Chinese people, nor is the biologic interpretation of human 
life of the £mile Zola school. With Zola, it is an intellectual 
fad, but with us it is a matter of national consciousness. In 
China one does not have to learn to become a realist: here one 
is born a realist. President Li Yiianhung was never noted for 
power of cerebration, but, as a Chinese, he instinctively felt 
that all political problems are not, and should not be, anything 
but problems of the rice-bowl. As a Chinese, he gave thus the 
profoundest explanation of Chinese politics of which I know. 

This nonchalant and materialistic attitude is based on the 
very shrewd view of life to which only old people and old 
nations can attain. It would be futile for young men under 
thirty to understand it, as it is futile for young nations of the 
West to try to appreciate it. Perhaps it was no mere accident 
that the very name of Laotse, the author of Taotehking^ the 
Bible of Taoism, means an ‘^old man.”^ Someone has said 
that every man past forty is a crook. Anyway, it is undeniable 
that the older we grow, the more shameless we become. Young 
girls of twenty seldom marry for money; women of forty seldom 
marry for anything else — ‘‘security” is perhaps the word they 
call it. It is by no mere whim that, in Greek mythology, young 
Icarus was made to fly too high until the wax of his wings 
melted and he fell into the sea, while Daedalus, the old father, 
flew low, but flew safely home. When a man grows old, he 
develops a genius for flying low, and idealism is tempered 
with cool, level-headed common sense, as well as with a sense 
for dollars and pennies. Realism is, then, characteristic of 
old age, as idealism is characteristic of youth. When a man 
is past forty and does not become a crook, he is either feeble- 
minded or a genius. To the latter class belong the “big children,” 

1 This old man, around the sixth century b.c., was riding a donkey through 
the Hankukuan Pass, and saying good-bye to the world, when he was begged to 
leave the five thousand words of Taotehking for the enlightenment of his 
feUow-men. 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


52 

Kke Tolstoy, Robert Louis Stevenson and Sir James Barrie, 
who have in them so much native childishness, which, combined 
with experience of fact, gives them that capacity for eternal 
youth which we call immortality. 

All this is, however, pure Taoism, in theory and practice, for 
there is no profounder collection of a concentrated roguish 
philosophy of life than that contained in the five thousand 
words of Laotse’s Taotehking. Taoism, in theory and practice, 
means a certain roguish nonchalance, a confounded and 
devastating scepticism, a mocking laughter at the futility of all 
human interference and the failure of all human institutions, 
laws, government and marriage, and a certain disbelief in 
idealism, not so much because of lack of energy as because of 
a lack of faith. It is a philosophy which counteracts the 
positivism of Confucius, and serves as a safety-valve for 
the imperfections of a Confucian society. For the Gonfucian 
outlook on life is positive, while the Taoistic outlook is negative, 
and out of the alchemy of these two strange elements emerges 
the immortal thing we call Chinese character.^ 

Hence aU Chinese are Confucianists when successful, and 
Taoists when they are failures. The Confticianist in us builds 
and strives, while the Taoist in us watches and smiles. There- 
fore when a Chinese scholar is in office he moralizes, and when 
he is out of ofl&ce he versifies, and usually it is good Taoistic 
poetry. That explains why almost all Chinese scholars write 
poetry, and why in almost all collected works of Chinese writers, 
poetry occupies the better and greater half. 

For Taoism, like morphia, is strangely benumbing and 
therefore strangely soothing. It relieves Chinese headaches 
and heartaches. Its romanticism, its poetry and its worship 
of nature serve the Chinese as handsomely in times of trouble 
and disorder as Confucianism serves them in times of peace 
and national integration. In that way it provides a safe retreat 
for the Chinese human heart and a balm for the Chinese soul, 
when the flesh is submitted to trials and tribulations. The 
poetry of Taoism alone has made the rigoristic life on the 
Confucian pattern endurable, and its romanticism has saved 

1 So to as this negative attitude toward life is concerned, Buddhism is 
merely Taoism a little touched in its wits. 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 53 

Chinese literature from becoming a mere collection of eulogies 
on the imperial virtues and a rehash of moral exhortations. 
All good Chinese literature, all Chinese literature that is worth 
while, that is readable, and that pleases the human mind and 
soothes the human heart is essentially imbued with this 
Taoistic spirit. Taoism and Confucianism are the negative 
and positive poles of Chinese thought which make life possible 
in China. 

The Chinese are by nature greater Taoists than they are 
by culture Confucianists. As a people, we are great enough to 
draw up an imperial code, based on the conception of essential 
justice, but we are also great enough to distrust lawyers and 
law courts. Ninety-five per cent of legal troubles are settled 
out of court. We are great enough to make elaborate rules 
of ceremony, but we are also great enough to treat them as 
part of the great joke of life, which explains the great feasting 
and merry-making at Chinese funerals. We are great enough 
to denounce vice, but we are also great enough not to be 
surprised or disturbed by it. We are great enough to start 
successive waves of revolutions, but we are also great enough 
to compromise and go back to the previous patterns of govern- 
ment. We are great enough to elaborate a perfect system of 
official impeachment, and civil service, and traffic regulations, 
and library reading-room rules, but we are also great enough 
to break ^ systems, to ignore them, circumvent them, play 
with them, and become superior to them. We do not teach 
our young in the colleges a course of political science, showing 
how a government is supposed to be run, but we teach them 
by daily example how our municipal, provincial and central 
governments are actually run. We have no use for impracticable 
idealism, as we have no patience for doctrinaire theology. We 
do not teach our young to become like the sons of God, but 
we teach them to behave like sane, normal human beings. 
That is why I believe that the Chinese are essentially human- 
ists and Christianity must fail in China, or it must be altered 
beyond recognition before it C 2 in be accepted. The only 
part of Christian teachings which will be truly accepted by the 
Chinese people is Christ’s injunction to be ^‘harmless as doves” 
but ‘Vise as serpents.” For these two virtues, dove-like gentle- 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


54 

ness and serpent-like wisdom, are attributes of the old rogue. 

In one word we recognize the necessity of human effort, 
but we also admit the futility of it. This general attitude of 
mind has a tendency to develop passive defence tactics. 
^^Great things can be reduced into small things, and small 
things can be reduced into nothing.” On this general principle 
all Chinese disputes are patched up, all Chinese schemes are 
readjusted, and all reform programmes are discounted until 
there are peace and rice for everybody. “One bid is not so 
good as one pass,” so runs another of our proverbs, which 
means the same thing as “Let well enough alone,” and “Let 
sleeping dogs lie.” 

Human life moves on, therefore, on the line of least struggle 
and least resistance. This develops a certain calmness of mind, 
which enables one to swallow insults and to find oneself in 
harmony with the universe. It develops also certain defence 
tactics which can be more terrible than any tactics of aggression. 
When one goes to a restaurant and feels hungry, but the food 
does not come, one can repeat the order to the boy. If the boy 
is rude, one can complain to the management and do some- 
thing about it. But if the boy replies in the most elegant manner, 
“Coming! coming!” and does not move a step, one can do 
absolutely nothing except pray or curse in the most elegant 
manner also. Such, in brief, is the passive strength of the 
Chinese people, a strength which those who are made to feel 
most will appreciate best. It is the strength of the old rogue. 


V. Pacifism 

So far we have been dealing with three of the worst character- 
istics that paralyse the Chinese people for organized action. 
These characteristics are seen to spring from a general view of 
life, as shrewd as it is mellow, distinguished by a certain 
tolerant nonchalance. It is evident that such a view of life is 
not without its virtues, and they are the virtues of an old 
people, not ambitious nor keen to sit on top of the world, but 
a people whose eyes have seen much of life, who are prepared 
to accept life for what it is worth, but who insist nevertheless 



THE CHINESE CHARAQTEK 55 

that this life shall be lived decently and happily within one’s 
lot. 

For the Chinese are a hard-boiled lot. There is no nonsense 
about them: they do not live in order to die, as the Christians 
pretend to do, nor do they seek for a Utopia on earth, as many 
seers of the West do. They just want to order this life on earth, 
which they know to be full of pain and sorrow, so that they 
may work peaceably, endure nobly, and live happily. Of the 
noble virtues of the West, of nobility, ambition, zeal for reform, 
public spirit, sense for adventure and heroic courage, the 
Chinese are devoid. They cannot be interested in climbing 
Mont Blanc or in exploring the North Pole. But they are 
tremendously interested in this commonplace world, and they 
have an indomitable patience, an indefatigable industry, a 
sense of duty, a level-headed common sense, cheerfulness, 
humour, tolerance, pacifism, and that unequalled genius for 
finding happiness in hard environments which we call con- 
tentment — qualities that make this commonplace life enjoyable 
to them. And chief of these are pacifism and tolerance, which 
are the mark of a mellow culture, and which seem to be lacking 
in modem Europe. 

Indeed it seems at times, on watching the spectacle of 
present-day Europe, that she is suffering less from a lack of 
“smartness” or intellectual brilliance than from the lack of a 
little mellow wisdom. It seems at times barely possible that 
Europe will outgrow its hot-headed youthfulness and its in- 
tellectual brilliance, and that sifter another century of scientific 
progress, the world will be brought so closely together that the 
Europeans will leam to take a more tolerant view of life and 
of each other, at the risk of total annihilation. They will 
perhaps leam to be a little less brilliant, and a little more 
mature. I have confidence that the change of view will be 
brought about, not by brilliant theories but by an instinct for 
self-preservation. Perhaps then the West will learn to believe 
less in self-assertion and more in tolerance, for tolerance will 
be direly needed when the world is closely knit together. They 
win be a litde less desirous to make progress, and a little more 
anxious to understand life. And the voice of the Old Man of 
Hahkukuan Pass will be listened to more widely. 



56 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

From the Chinese point of view, pacifism is not “noble”; it 
is simply “good” because it is common sense. If this earthly 
life is all the life we can have, we must try to live in peace if we 
want to live happily. From this point of view, the self-assertion 
and the restlessness of the spirit of the West are signs of its 
youthful rawness. The Chinese, steeped in his Oriental philo- 
sophy, can see that that rawness will gradually wear off at 
Europe’s coming of age. For, strange as it may seem, out of 
the extremely shrewd philosophy of Taoism there always 
emerges the word “tolerance.” Tolerance has been, I think, 
the greatest quality of Chinese culture, and tolerance will also 
become the greatest quality of modem culture, when that 
culture matures. To learn tolerance, one needs a little sorrow 
and a little cynicism of the Taoist type. True cynics are often 
the kindest people, for they see the hollowness of life, and from 
the reali2ation of that hollowness is generated a kind of cosmic 
pity. _ 

Pacifism, too, is a matter of high human understan din g. If 
man could leam to be a little more cynical, he would also be 
less inclined toward warfare. That is perhaps why all in- 
telligent men are cowards. The Chinese are the world’s worst 
fighters because they are an intelligent race, backed and 
nurtured by Taoistic cynicism and the Confucian emphasis 
on harmony as the ideal of life. They do not fight because they 
are the most calculating and self-interested of peoples. An 
average Chinese child knows what the European grey-haired 
statesmen do not know, that by fighting one gets killed or 
maimed, whether it be an individual or a nation. Chinese 
parties to a dispute are the easiest to bring to their senses. 
That calculating philosophy teaches them to be slow to quarrel 
and quick to patch up. That mellow, old roguish philosophy 
which teaches the Chinese patience and passive resistance in 
times of trouble, also warns them against momentary pride 
and assertion at the moment of success. The Chinese counsel 
for moderation says: “When fortune comes, do not enjoy all of 
i-t, when advantage comes, do not take all of it.” To be over- 
^sertiye and to take full advantage of one’s position is called 
“showing too much edge,” a mark of vulgarity and an omen 
of downfall. Whereas the English believe in “not striking a 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 57 

man when he is down’’ out of respect for fair play, the Chinese 
equivalent expression ‘^do not push a fellow to the wall” is 
merely a matter of culture, or hariyang, as we call it. 

To the Chinese, the Versailles Treaty is not only unfair, it 
is merely vulgar or lacking in hanyang. If the Frenchman had 
been inbued a little with the spirit of Taoism at the moment 
of his victory, he would not have imposed the Versailles Treaty, 
and his head would rest more easily on his pUlow to-day. But 
France was young, and Germany would certainly have done 
the same thing, and no one realizes the extreme silliness of two 
nations like France and Germany each trying to keep the other 
permanendy under its iron heels. But Clemenceau had not 
read Laotse. Nor has Hider. So let them fight, while the Taoist 
watches and smiles. 

Chinese pacifism is also largely a matter of temperament as 
well as of human understanding. Chinese boys fight much 
less in the street than Western boys. As a people, we fight 
much less than we ought to, in spite of our interminable civil 
wars. Put the American people under the same misrule and 
there would have been thirty revolutions, not three, in the last 
twenty years. Ireland is now at peace because the Irish fought 
hard, and we are still fighting to-day because we do not fight 
hard enough. 

Nor are Chinese civil wars fighting in the real sense of the 
word. Until recendy, civil wars were never glorified. Con- 
scription for service is unknown, and the soldiers who do the 
fighting are poor people who do not know how to make a 
hving otherwise. These soldiers do not relish a good fight, and 
the generals relish the fight because they do not do the fighting. 
In any major campaign silver bullets have always won, in 
spite of the fact that the conquering hero may make a majestic 
triumphal return to the capital to the accompaniment of the 
boom of guns. Those guns — ^they suggest so much the sound 
of batde, and they are typical, for in Chinese private quarrels 
and civil warfare, it is the sound and noise that make up the 
essence of the battie. One does not see fighting in China; one 
merely hears it. I heard two such batdes, one in Peking, and 
one in Amoy. Aurally, it was satisfying. Usually a superior 
army merely awes the inferior enemy into defeat, and what 



58 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

would be a protracted campaign in a Western country is 
finished in a month. The defeated general, according to the 
Chinese idea of fair play, is then given a hundred thousand 
dollars travelling expenses and sent on a ‘'tour of industrial 
investigation to Europe/’ with the full knowledge that in the 
next war his services may be needed by the present conqueror. 
With the next turn of events, the most probable thing is that 
you will find the victor and the vanquished riding in the same 
car like two sworn brothers. That is the beauty of Chinese 
hanyang. Meanwhile, the people have nothing to do with it. 
They hate war, and will always hate war. Good people never 
fight in China. For "good iron is not made into nails, and 
good men are not made soldiers.” 


VI. Contentment 

Travellers in China, especially .those wayward travellers 
who go through the seldom visited parts of the Chinese inland, 
are equally amazed at the low standard of living of the Chinese 
toiling masses and at their cheerfulness and contentment under 
such conditions. Even in the famine-stricken provinces, like 
Shensi, this spirit of contentment generally prevails in all except 
extreme cases, and some Shensi farmers probably can still 
smile. 

Now a lot of the so-called misery of the Chinese people is 
due undoubtedly to the application of a warped European 
standard, the standard which cannot conceive of any man 
being happy unless he is living in an overheated apartment 
and owns a radio. If this standard were correct, there should 
have been no happy person in the world before 1850, and there 
shoiild be more happy people in the United States than in 
gmutliches Bavaria, where there are very few rotating, adjustable 
collapsible and reversible barber chairs, and certainly very 
few switches and buttons. There are still fewer switches and 
buttons m the Chinese countryside, although in progressive 
Shanghai the old-fashioned barber chair that is a real chair, 
^d that one can still find on Elingsway in London or in 
Montmartre in Paris to-day, has completely disappeared. For 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 59 

myself, I am inclined to think that the man who sits on a chair 
that is a real chair, and sleeps on a bed that is a real bed (and 
not a daytime sofa) is a happier man. The standard that 
measures a man’s civilization by the number of mechanical 
buttons he presses in a day must, therefore, be a false standard, 
and a lot of this so-called mystery of Chinese contentment is 
of the Westerner’s own making. 

It is true, however, that Chinese people are perhaps more 
contented than Western people, class for class, when living 
under the same conditions. This spirit of cheerfulness and 
contentment is found in both the literate and illiterate classes, 
for such is the penetration of the Chinese racial tradition. It 
may be seen in the gay, babbling rickshaw boy of Peking, for 
ever laughing and joking aU the way and ready to laugh at a 
fellow-man’s discomforts, or it may be seen in the panting and 
perspiring sedan-chair coolies who carry you up to the top of 
Ruling, or it may be seen in the boat-trackers who pull your 
boat up the Szechuen rapids and who earn for their living a 
bare pittance beyond two simple but hearty meals a day. A 
simple but hearty meal eaten without much worry is, however, 
a great deal of luck, according to the Chinese theory of 
contentment, for as^ a Chinese scholar has put it, ‘‘a well- 
filled stomach is indeed a great thing: all else is luxury of 
life.”i 

For contentment is another of those words, like “kindliness” 
and “peaceableness,” which are written on red paper and 
pasted on all doors on New Year’s Day. It is part of the counsel 
for moderation, part of that human wisdom which says, 
“When good fortune comes, do not enjoy all of it,” and of that 
advice of a Ming scholar “to choose the lighter happiness.” 
Among the epigrams of Laotse which have passed into current 
phraseology is the maxim that “one who is contented will not 
meet with disgrace.” Anotherformof thismaximis, “One who is 
contented is always happy.” In literature, it emerges as a 
praise of the rural life and of the man who has few worries, a 
sentiment which is found in all poems and private letters. I 

^ The Chinese description of this happy state of going to bed with a filled 
stomach is: "soft, well-filled, dark and sweet" — the last two adjectives 
referring to sweet slumber. This expression is positively voluptuous in the 
Chinese language. 



6o MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

pick at random from a collection of letters of Ming scholars. 
Thus wrote Lu Shen to his friend: 

To-night we are going to have a fiall moon. How about 
getting a painted houseboat and bringing along a few 
musicians? . . . Can you come and spend a night with me 
in this early autumn? I am going to have a recluse’s gown 
made, and when my resignation is accepted, I shall be indeed 
a carefree old man of the mountains. 

It is this sort of sentiment which, when passing into the current 
thoughts and feelings of the Chinese scholar, enables him to 
find happiness in his lowly hut. 

Human happiness is a frail thing, for the gods are evidently 
jealous of it. The problem of happiness is therefore the most 
elusive problem of life, but after all is said and done about 
culture and progress, it should remain the primary concern of 
mankind’s highest wisdom to solve it. The Chinese, with their 
usual common sense, have bent their highest efforts toward 
the finding of this happiness, and like the utilitarians that they 
are, have always been more interested in the problem of 
happiness than in the problem of progress. 

Mrs. Bertrand Russell wisely pointed out that “the right to 
be happy” was, and stiU is, a forgotten right that nobody in 
the West is interested in. Westerners being preoccupied with the 
more secondary rights to vote, to pass upon the Kang’s ex- 
penditure, to declare war, and to be tried when arrested. The 
Chinese have never even thought of the right to be tried when 
arrested, but they have always been supremely jealous of their 
right to happiness, which neither poverty nor disgrace is 
allowed to take away from them. The Western approach to 
the problem of happiness is positive, while the Chinese ap- 
proach is negative. The question of happiness is always 
reduced, in the last analysis, to the question of a man’s wants. 

The fact is, we are vary much in confusion as to what we 
reahy want. For this reason, the story of Diogenes who pro- 
claimed to the world that he was a happy man because he did 
not want ^ything, and who threw away his bowl on seeing a 
boy dri nk i ng from his hands, always provokes some laughter 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 6l 

and a certain amount of real envy from the modern man. The 
modern man finds himself in continual perplexity in regard to 
many problems, and most of all in problems that affect closely 
his personal life. He cannot spare himself a certain luxurious 
envy for that ascetic ideal of Diogenes, and is at the same time 
far from willing to miss a really good show or movie. That 
gives us the so-called * ^restlessness’’ of the modern spirit. 

The Chinese, without going so far as Diogenes, for the 
Chinese never go far in anything, take the negative approach 
to happiness through their philosophy of contentment. Unlike 
Diogenes, however, a Chinese man wants quite a few things. 
But he wants only the things that make for happiness, 
and at the same time does not insist on having them if 
they are out of his reach. He wants at least a pair of 
clean shirts, for Diogenes in the story book may exhale 
a certain spiritual fragrance, but Diogenes as a bedfellow 
would be a different story. But if he is extremely poor and can 
have only one shirt, he will not mind, either. And unlike 
Diogenes, he wants also a good show, and he would give him- 
self up to the full enjoyment of it. But if he must go without that, 
he will not be too sorry. He wants some tall old trees in his 
neighbourhood, but if he cannot have them, a date-tree in 
his yard will give him just as much happiness. He wants 
many children, and a wife who personally prepares his favourite 
dishes; and if he is wealthy, then a good cook, too, and a 
pretty maidservant in red pyjamas to tend the incense while 
he is reading or painting. He wants some good friends, and a 
woman who understands, preferably to be found in the person 
of his wife; if not, then in one of the sing-song girls. If he is not 
bom with such ^Voluptuous luck,” then he will not be sorry, 
either. He wants a filled stomach, but congee and pickled 
carrots are not so costly in China; and he wants a good jug of 
wine, but rice-wine is often home-brewed, or he can pay only 
a few cash for a bowl at the good old wine-shops. He wants 
leisure, and leisure he can have in China, and he is as happy as 
a bird if he 


Has met a monk in a bamboo-covered yard 
And enjoyed another of life’s leisurely half-days. 



6a 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


He wants a secluded hut, if he cannot have an entire pleasure 
garden, situated among the mountains with a mountain rill 
running past his hut, or in a valley where of an afternoon he 
can saunter along the river bank and watch cormorants 
catching fish for the fisher. But if he cannot have that luck 
and must live in the city, he will not be sorry, either. For he 
would have, in any case, a cage bird and a few potted flowers 
and the moon, for he can always have the moon. So did Su 
Tungp’o the poet write about the moon in a perfect gem-like 
little essay, called “A Night Promenade at Ch’engt’ien”: 

On the twelfth night of the tenth moon of the sixth year 
of Ytlanfeng, I had imdressed and was going to bed, when 
the moonlight entered my door, and I got up, happy of 
heart. I thought there was no one to share this happiness 
with me. So I walked over to the Ch’engt’ien Temple to 
look for Huaimin. He, too, had not yet gone to bed. So we 
paced about in the yard. The yard looked like a transparent 
pool with the shadows of water-grass in it, but they were 
really the shadows of bamboos and pine-trees cast by the 
moonlight. Isn’t there a moon on every night? And aren’t 
there bamboos and pine-trees everywhere? Only there are 
few carefree people like the two of us. 

A strong determination to get the best out of life, a keen 
desire to enjoy what one has, and no regrets if one fails: this is 
the secret of the Chinese genius for contentment. 


VII. Humour 

Humour is a state of mind. More than that, it is a point of 
view, a way of looking at life. The flower of humour blooms 
whenever in the course of development of a nation there is an 
^uberance of intellect able to flay its own ideals, for humour 
M nothing but intellect slashing at itself. In any period of 
^tory, when mankind was able to perceive its own futility, 
its own smallness, and its own follies and inconsistencies, a 
humorist appeared, like Chuangtse of China, Omar Khayydm 





THE CHINESE CHARACTER 63 

of Persia, and Aristophanes of Greece. Athens would be 
infinitely poorer had there been no Aristophanes, and the 
Chinese intellectual heritage would be infinitely less rich had 
there been no Chuangtse. 

Since Chuangtse lived and wrote, however, all Chinese 
politicians and bandits have become great humorists, because 
they have been imbued, directly or indirectly, with the Chuang- 
tsean view of life. Laotse had laughed before him, a thin, 
shrill yet cataclysmic laughter. He must have been a bachelor 
all his life, or he could not have laughed so roguishly. Anyway 
there is no record that he ever married or had any progeny. 
The last coughs of Laotse’s laughter were caught up by 
Chuangtse and he, being a younger man, had a richer voice, 
and the ring of his laughter has reverberated throughout the 
ages. We still cannot resist a chance to laugh, yet sometimes 
I feel we are carrying the joke too far, and laugh a little out of 
season. 

The abysmal ignorance of the foreigner about China and 
the Chinese cannot be more impressive than when he asks the 
question: Do the Chinese have a sense of humour? It is really 
as surprising as if an Arab caravan were to ask: Are there sands 
in the Sahara desert? It is strange, however, how little a person 
may see in a country. Theoretically, at least, the Chinese 
people should have humour, for humour is born of realism; 
and the Chinese are an unusually realistic people. Humour 
is bom of conunon sense, and the Chinese have an overdose 
of common sense. Humour, especially Asiatic humour, is 
the product of contentment and leisure, and the Chinese have 
contentment and leisure to a supreme degree. A humorist 
is often a defeatist, and delights in recounting his own failures 
and embarrassments, and the Chinese are often sane, cool- 
minded defeatists. Humour often takes a tolerant view of vice 
and evil and instead of condemning them, laughs at them, and 
the Chinese have always been characterized by the capacity 
to tolerate evil. Toleration has, then, a good and a bad side, 
and the Chinese have both of them. If the characteristics of 
the Chinese race we have discussed above — common sense, 
toleration, contentment and old roguery — are true, then 
humour is inevitable in China. 



64 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Chinese humour, however, is more in deeds than in words. 
The Chinese have their words for the various types of humour, 
but the commonest type, called huacKi^ in which sometimes the 
Confucian scholars indulge under pseudonyms, really means 
to me only “trying to be funny.’^ Such writings are only 
literary relaxations of a too rigoristic classical tradition, but 
humour as such had no proper place in literature. At least 
there was no open acknowledgement of the role and value of 
humour in literature. Humour, indeed, abounds in Chinese 
novels, but novels were never accepted as “literature^’ by the 
classicists. 

There is very first-class hurhour in Shiking (Book of Poetry), 
in the Confucian Analects and in Hanfeitse, but the Confucian 
gentleman, brought up in his puritan view of life, could not see 
any fun in Confucius, just as he failed to see the wonderful 
tender love lyrics in Shiking^ giving them fantastic interpre- 
tations, as the Western theologians give of the Song of Songs. 
There is a very fine humour in T’ao Yiianming’s writings, too, 
a sort of quiet leisurely content and a refined luxury of self- 
abnegatiOn, the best example of which is his poem on his 
unworthy sons: 

My temples are grey, my muscles no longer full. 

Five sons have I, and none of them likes school. 

Ah-shu is sixteen and as lazy as lazy can be. 

Ah-hsiian is fifteen and no taste for reading has he. 

Thirteen are Yung and Tuan, yet they can’t tell six from 
seven. 

A-t’ung wants only pears and chestnuts — ^in two years he’ll 
be eleven. 

Then, come! let me empty this cup, if such be the will of 
Heaven. 

Humour there is, too, in Tu Fu’s and Li Po’s poetry, Tu 
Fu who often produces in his readers a bitter smile, and Li 
Po who pleases by his romanticist nonchalance, but we do not 
call it “humour.” The unholy awe in which Confucianism 
was held as the national religion also restricted the free ex- 
pression of ideas and made the presentation of novel points 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 65 

of view and ideas taboo, and humour only lives on novel 
and original points of view. It is clear that such a conventional 
environment is not conducive to the production of humorous 
literature. If anyone were to make a collection of Chinese 
humour, he would have to cull it from the folk-songs and the 
Yuan dramas and the Ming novels, all outside the pale of the 
classical "‘literature,’’ and in the private notes and letters of 
scholars (especially those of the Sung and Ming Dynasties), 
when they are a little off their guard. 

But the Chinese have nevertheless a humour all their own, 
for they always love a good joke. It is humour of a grimmer 
sort, and is based on the farcical view of life. In spite of the 
extremely serious style in their editorial and political writings, 
which are seldom relieved by humour, they often surprise the 
foreigners by the extremely light manner in which they take 
important reform programmes and movements, like the Kuo- 
mintang agrarian programme, the Sanmin Doctrine, the flood 
and famine relief, the New Life Movement, and the Anti- 
Opium Bureaux. An American professor, recently visiting 
Shanghai and lecturing in the Chinese colleges, was completely 
surprised by the burst of laughter among the student audience 
whenever he made a perfectly sincere reference to the New 
Life Movement. If he had made a serious reference to the 
Anti-Opium Bureaux, he would have been met by still louder 
volleys of silvery laughter. 

For humour is, as I have said, a point of view, a way of 
looking at life. With that view of life we are more or less 
familiar. Life is a huge farce, and we human beings are mere 
puppets in it. The man who takes life too seriously, who obeys 
library reading-room rules too honestly, who actually keeps 
off the lawn because merely a signboard says so, always makes 
a fool of himself and is usually subjected to laughter from his 
older colleagues, and since laughter is contagious, very soon he 
becomes a humorist, too. 

This humorist farcicality then results in the inability of 
the Chinese to take anything seriously, from the most serious 
political reform movement to a dog’s funeral. The farcical 
element in Chinese funerals is typical. In the grandiloquent 
funeral processions of Chinese upper and middle classes, you 



66 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

can see street urchins with dirty faces wearing embroidered 
and multi-coloured robes, accompanied, in modern China, by 
brass bands playing "'Onward, Christian Soldiers,"’ which 
facts are often adduced by Europeans as proofs of the Chinese 
lack of humour. A Chinese funeral procession, however, is a 
perfect symbol of Chinese humour, for Europeans alone take 
a funeral procession seriously and try to make it solemn. A 
solemn funeral is inconceivable to the Chinese mind. Where 
the Europeans err is that, with their preconceived notions, they 
think a priori that a funeral should be a solemn affair. A funeral, 
like a wedding, should be noisy and should be expensive, but 
there is no reason why it should be solemn. Solemnity is 
already provided for in the grandiloquent gowns, and the 
rest is form, and form is farce. To this day, I cannot distin- 
guish between a funeral and a wedding procession until I see 
a coffin or a wedding-chair. 

Chinese humour, then, as symbolized by the highly farcical 
fimeral procession, consists in compliance with outward form 
as such and the total disregard of the substance in actuality. 
One who appreciates the humour of a Chinese funeral should 
be able to read and interpret Chinese political programmes 
properly also. Political programmes and official statements 
are issued as matters of form, being drafted by clerks who 
specialize in a kind of specious, bombastic phraseology, just 
as there are special shops keeping funeral procession gowns 
and paraphernalia for hire, and no intelligent Chinese ever 
takes them seriously. If foreign newspaper correspondents 
would bear this symbol of the funeral gown in mind, they 
would be less likely to be misled by them and then later 
give up the Chinese as a unique people that they fail to under- 
stand. 

This farcical view of life and this formula regarding form 
and substance can be illustrated in a myriad different ways. 
Some years ago, a government order, originating in a request 
from the Central Kuomintang, prohibited the Chinese govern- 
ment ministries from keeping Shanghai offices in the foreign 
concessions. The actual carrying out of this order would 
mean a great inconvenience to the ministers who have their 
homes in Shanghai, and throw a number of people out of 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 67. 

jobs. The Nanking ministers neither defied the Nanking order 
nor petitioned for its repeal on honest grounds of inconvenience 
and impracticability. No professional clerk could be clever 
enough to draft any such petition and make it accord with 
good form, since it meant the desire of Chinese officials to 
reside in foreign settlements^ which would be unpatriotic. 
They did an infinitely cleverer thing by changing the door- 
plates of their Shanghai offices and calling them trade in- 
spection bureaux. The door-plates probably cost twenty 
dollars apiece, no man was thrown out of a job, and no ^Yace’* 
was lost. The school trick pleased not only the Nanking 
ministers but also Nanking itself, where the original order was 
issued. Our Nanking ministers are great humorists. So are 
our bandits. So are our war-lords. The humour of Chinese 
civil wars has already been pointed out. 

In contrast with this, we might take the case of mission 
schools as showing the Western lack of humour. The missions 
were put into a scare a few years ago when their registration 
was required, which involved the crossing out of religious 
instruction from the school curricula, the hanging of Sun 
Yatsen’s picture in the assembly hall, and the holding of 
Monday memorial meetings. The Chinese authorities could 
not see why the mission schools could not comply with these 
simple regulations, while the missionaries could not see their 
way clear to accepting them, and there was a deadlock. Some 
missionaries actually had visions of closing up their schools, 
and in one instance, everything would have gone on smoothly 
except for the stupid honesty of the Western principal who 
refused to cancel one sentence from their school catalogue 
avowing religious instruction to be one of their aims. The 
principal wanted to be able to say honestly and openly that 
religious instruction was indeed the principal aim of their 
institution, and to this day that school is not registered. There 
was absolutely no lightness of touch. What this mission school 
should have done was to imitate the example of the Nanking 
ministers, comply with every official regulation, hang a picture 
of Sun Yatsen — and proceed d la chinoise as regards the rest. 
But I cannot help thinking that a school run with such stupid 
honesty must be an honest-to-goodness school. 



68 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Such is the Chinese farcical view of life. The Chinese 
language abounds in metaphors regarding the drama of 
human life. Chinese officials assuming and leaving their posts 
are spoken of as ‘‘entering the stage’’ and “making their exit,” 
and a man coming with a high-sounding programme is referred 
to as “singing high opera.” We really look upon life as a stage, 
and the kind of theatrical show we like best is always high 
comedy, whether that comedy be a new constitution, or a bill 
of rights, or an anti-opium bureau, or a disbandment con- 
ference. We always enjoy it, but I wish our people would 
sometimes be serious. Humour, above everything else, is 
ruining China. One can have too much of that sUvery laughter, 
for it is again the laughter of the old rogue, at the touch of 
whose breath every flower of enthusiasm and idealism must 
wither and die. 


VIII. Conservatism 

No portrait of the Chinese character would be complete 
without a mention of its conservatism. Conservatism in itself 
should not be a word of reproach. Conservatism is but a form 
of pride and rests on a feeling of satisfaction with the present. 
Since there is usually so little one can be proud of and so litde 
satisfaction in the arrangement of human life in this world, 
conservatism is really a sign of inward richness, a gift rathei 
to be envied. 

The Chinese are by nature a proud race — excusably so, 
when one considers the whole course of their history except 
the last hundred years. For, though politically they were a 
times humiliated, culturally they were the centre of a vas 
humanist civilization that was conscious of itself and lackec 
no well-reasoned apologetics. China’s only cultural rival o 
any importance that represented a different point of view wa 
Indian Buddhism, and for Buddhism, the true Confucianis 
had always some measure of sneering contempt. For th- 
Gonfucianist was immeasurably proud of Confucius, and i3 
being proud of Confucius, he was proud of the nation, prom 
of the Chinese having understood life in its moral essence 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 69 

proud of their knowledge of human nature, and proud of their 
having solved the problems of life in all its ethical and political 
relationships. 

In a way, he was justified. For Confucianism not only asked 
about the meaning of life but also answered it in a way that 
left people satisfied with having found the meaning of human 
existence. The answer was solid, clear and sensible, so that it 
left people with no desire to speculate about the future life or 
to change the present one. Man naturally becomes con- 
servative when he realizes he has got something that works 
and therefore something that is true. The Confucianist saw 
no other way of life, thought no other way possible. The fact 
that Westerners, too, have a well-organized social life and that 
a London policeman would help an old woman across the 
street without any knowledge of the Gonfucian doctrine of 
respect for old age comes to the Chinese always more or less as 
a shock. 

When the realization came that Westerners possess all the 
Confucian virtues of courtesy, orderliness, honour, kindliness, 
courage, and honesty of government, and that Confucius 
would have personally approved of the London policeman 
and tube conductor, that racial pride was badly shaken. There 
were things that displeased the Chinese and struck him as raw, 
uncouth and barbarian, like husband and wife walking hand 
in hand together, father and daughter kissing each other, 
kissing on the screen, kissing on the stage, kissing on the rail- 
way platform, and kissing everywhere. These things confirmed 
him in the belief that the Chinese civilization was really 
superior. But there were other things, like the common people 
being able to read, women being able to write letters, general 
cleanliness (which he imagined was a heritage from the 
Middle Ages instead of a nineteenth-century invention) , 
students’ respect for teachers, and English boys always saying 
‘‘Yes, sir,” to their superiors and the like which were im- 
measurably impressive. These, together with good roads, the 
railway, the steamship, good leather boots, Parisian perfume, 
the wonderfully sweet white children, the X-ray pictures, the 
camera, the phonograph, the telephone, and many similar 
things, have completely shattered the native pride. 



70 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


Hdped by the extraterritorial rights and the generous use 
of European boots against Chinese coolies, for which there is 
no legal redress, the loss of pride became an instinctive fear of 
the foreigner. The old celestial pride is now no more. The 
hullabaloo raised by foreign merchants against possible Chinese 
attacks on the settlements is only a negative testimony of their 
courage and of their knowledge of modern China. Some 
inward indignation against those European boots and their 
liberal use against Chinese coolies there must always be, but if 
the foreigner thinks that the Chinese will ever show their 
indignation by reprisal with inferior leather boots, he is 
grossly mistaken. If they did, they would not be Chinese, but 
Christians. Practically speaking, admiration for the Europeans 
and fear of their aggressiveness are now universal. 

Some such bad shock must have been responsible for the 
ultra-radicalism that brought about the Republic of China. 
No one could think China would become a republic. It was a 
change so vast and gigantic that it could appeal to none except 
the idiotic or the inspired. It was like building a bridge of 
rainbow across to heaven and then walking on it. But the 
Chinese revolutionists of 1911 were inspired. Following upon 
the Chinese defeat in the Sino-Japanese War of 1895, there 
was an active propaganda for modernization of China. There 
were two schools, the constitutionalists who stood for a modern- 
ized limited monarchy, and the revolutionists who were for a 
republic. The left wing was led by Sun Yatsen, while the right 
wing was led by K’ang Yuwei, and his disciple Liang Ch’ich’ao, 
who later forsook his master and turned left. For a long time, 
the adherents of these parties were fighting literary battles in 
Japan, but the question was finally settled, not by any argu- 
ment but by the apparent hopelessness of the Manchu 
regime and by the intrinsic appeal to tacial pride. The 
political radicalism of 191 1 was followed by the literary radical- 
ism of 1916, when the Chinese Renaissance movement was 
started by Hu Shih, and succeeded by the ideological radical- 
ism of 1926, with the result that Communism is to-day colour- 
ing the thought of practically all prim2iry schoolteachers of 
the country. 

The consequence is that, to-day, China is divided into two 



THE CHINESE CHARACTER 7I 

armed camps of Communism and reaction. There is a deep 
chasm separating the younger generation from the older 
generation, which is an extremely regrettable state of affairs. 
While the thinking younger generation are decidedly for a 
cataclysmic upheaval of the whole ideological and political 
system, a movement of conservative reaction has set in among 
the ruling authorities. The conservative reaction is unfortun- 
ately unconvincing, owing to the fact that its champions are 
mostly war-lords and politicians whose personal lives are far 
from being models of Confucian conduct. Actually, such 
conservatism is only a cloak of hypocrisy and a sadistic reprisal 
giving outlet to their hatred of the young. For Confucianism 
teaches respect for old age and authority. The shining political 
light who utters large mouthfuls of Confucianism happens also 
to initiate Thibetan-lama-Buddhist prayers for ‘ divine succour 
against Japanese aggression. The jumble of Confucian plati- 
tudes mixed with Sanscrit om mani padme hum and Thibetan 
prayer-wheels creates an extremely weird effect unlikely to 
arouse the interest of the young Chinese. 

This is the surface struggle between conservatism and 
radicalism in China. Its outcome will depend largely upon 
Japanese and European politics, for no mere argument will 
settle the question. China may yet be driven to Communism, 
if the champions of conservatism cannot prove themselves 
worthy to find a way out for China. As regards the true 
temperament of the Chinese race and the large mass of people 
who either read Chinese only or read nothing at all, conservatism 
will always remain. 

Most important, however, is the fact that Chinese do not 
want to change. Behind all the outward changes of custom 
and women’s dress and habits of locomotion, the Chinese 
retains a sneering smile for the hot-headed young man who 
wears a foreign coat or who speaks English too well. That 
young man always looks immature and is often shamed out of 
his progressiveness. Thq strange thing is that the man who no 
longer looks immature veers towards conservatism in China. 
The returned student arrives at maturity by putting on a 
Chinese gown and accepting the Chinese way of life. He loves 
its mellowness, its leisure, its comforts, and its commonplace 



yz MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

coDtentment. In his Chinese gown, his soul has come to rest. 
The strange fascination of Chinese surroundings which keeps 
many “queer” Europeans in China for life comes over him 
toward middle age. 

Meanwhile, the large majority of the people will keep in 
their old ruts, not by any conscious conviction but by a kind 
of racial instinct. I feel the racial tradition is so strong that its 
fundamental pattern of life will always remain. Even if a 
cataclysmic upheaval like a communistic regime should come, 
the old tradition of individuality, toleration, moderation and 
common sense will break Communism and change it beyond 
recognition, rather than Communism with its socialistic, im- 
personal and rigoristic outlook break the old tradition. It 
must be so. 



Chapter Three 

THE CHINESE MIND 


I. Intelligence 

IF the preceding chapter on the Chinese character has any 
general conclusion, it is that of the supremacy of the human 
mind over material surroun ding s. Supremacy of the mind has 
more than one meaning. It means not only the application 
of human cunning to convert a world known to be fiill of pain 
and misery into a habitable place for human beings, but it 
implies also a certain contempt for mere physical courage and 
strength as such. Confucius long ago condemned the Jack 
Dempsey type of physical courage in his disciple Tziilu, and I 
am sure he would have preferred a Gene Tmmey who could 
be at home in circles of educated friends as well. Mencius, too, 
distinguished between mental labour and manual labour, and 
did not hesitate to put the former above the latter. For the 
Chinese had no nonsense about equality, and respect for 
the mental labourers or the educated class has been an out- 
standing characteristic of the Chinese civilization. 

This respect for learning must be taken in a different sense 
from that usually understood in the West, for, devoted as 
some Chinese scholars are to their learning, the devotion 
of some Western professors to their special subjects, sometimes 
amounting to a morbid pride and professional jealousy, seems 
to me much more impressive. The Chinese respect for the 
scholar is based on a different conception, for they respect that 
type of education which increases his practical wisdom, his 
knowledge of world affairs, and his judgment in times of crisis. 
It is a respect which, in theory at least, must be earned by 
actual worth. In local as in national troubles, the people look 
to him for cool judgment, for far-sightedness, for a better en- 
visagement of the manifold consequences of an act or decision, 

73 



74 my country and my people 

and therefore for natural guidance and leadership, and real 
leadership is conceived as a leadership of the mind. With the 
majority of people illiterate, it is easy to maintain that leader- 
ship, sometimes by a mere jumble of unusual phrases that the 
illiterate only half understand, or by a reference to history, of 
which the common people have only such knowledge as they 
can pick up from the theatre. The reference to history generally 
settles the question, and it is characteristic, because the 
Chinese mind thinks in terms of concrete analogy, which some- 
how puts the situation in a form that the common people can 
grasp in its entirety. 

I have already suggested that the Chinese suffer from an 
overdose of intelligence, as shown in their old roguery, their 
indifference, and in their pacifism, which so often borders on 
cowardice. But all intelligent men are cowards, because in- 
telligent men want to save their skins. There can be nothing 
more silly, if we keep our minds clear enough to see it, than a 
man popping his head ‘'over the top,’’ with gin-manufactured 
courage, in order to meet a lead bullet and die for a newspaper- 
manufactured “cause.” If he can use his head in reading news- 
papers, he will not be at the front, and if he can abstain from 
gin and keep a cool head, he will logically and humanly be in a 
blue funk. The last war has taught us that many gentle souls 
who shine at school or college undergo a mental torture of 
which the more robust and less intelligent have no inkling of 
an idea. And it is not the novice but the man in service for 
four years who begins to realize that desertion is often a virtue 
one owes to oneself and the only sane course open to a sensible 
and honest man. 

But the general mental intelligence of the Chinese race can 
be proved from other sources than cowardice. Chinese 
students in America and European colleges often distinguish 
themselves academically, and I think this is hardly due to a 
process of selection. The Chinese mind is long used to academic 
discussions at home. The Japanese have sarcastically dubbed 
the Chinese “a literary nation,” and justifiably so. An example 
of this is . the enormous output of current Chinese magaadnes 
which seems to crop up wherever a group of four or five friends 
get together in a city, and the tremendous number of writers 



THE CHINESE MIND 


75 

who keep the magazine editors overwhelmed with their 
articles. The old imperial examinations which^ as I have 
pointed out^ were a kind of intelligence test, long ago sharpened 
the Chinese scholar’s mind in the fine use of words and in 
subde literary distinctions, and the cultivation of poetry has 
trained them in the higher spheres of literary expression, and 
in taste and finesse. The Chinese art of painting has reached 
a height yet unreached by the West, and in calligraphy they 
have forged a way alone and reached what I believe to be 
the maximun variety and refinement in the conception of 
rhythmic beauty. 

The Chinese mind therefore cannot be accused of lacking 
originality or creativeness. Its inventiveness has been equal 
to the handicraft stage in which Chinese industries have always 
remained. Because of the failure to develop a scientific method 
and because of the peculiar qualities of Chinese thinking, 
China has been backward in natural science. I have confidence, 
however, that with the importation of the scientific method, 
and with adequate research facilities, China will be able to 
produce great scientists and make important contributions 
to the scientific world in the next century. 

Nor is such native intelligence confined to the educated 
class. Chinese servants are greatly welcomed on account of 
their general intelligence and human understanding, and 
must be put at least on a par with European servants. Chinese 
merchants have prospered in the Malay States, in the East 
Indies and in the Philippines chiefly because their intelligence 
has been greater than that of the natives and because of those 
virtues that come from intelligence, such as thrift, steady 
industry and far-sightedness. The respect for scholarship has 
brought about a general desire for refinement even among 
the lower middle class, of which the foreigner is seldom aware. 
Foreign residents in Shanghai sometimes offend the depart- 
ment-store salesmen by talking down to them in “pidgin,” not 
knowing that many of them are particular about a split 
infinitive. Chinese labourers are easily trained to be skilled 
mechanics where precision is required. One rarely sees in the 
slums and factory districts that type of big, husky animal of a 
similar class in the West, distinguished only by his big jaw. 



76 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

low forehead and brute strength. One meets a difiFerent type, 
with intelligent eyes and cheerful appearance and an eminently 
reasonable temperament. Perhaps the variability of intelli- 
gence is decidedly lower among the Chinese than among many 
Western races, the same lower variability that we see in the 
mental powers of women as compared with variability in 
men. 


II. Femininity 

Indeed, the Chinese mind is akin to the feminine mind in 
many respects. Femininity, in fact, is the only word that can 
summarize its various aspects. The qualities of the feminine 
intelligence and feminine logic are exactly the qualities of the 
Chinese mind. The Chinese head, like the feminine head, is 
full of common sense. It is shy of abstract terms, like women^s 
speech. The Chinese way of thinking is synthetic, concrete 
and revels in proverbs, like women’s conversation. They never 
have had higher mathematics of their own, and seldom have 
gone beyond the level of arithmetic, like many women, with 
the exception of those masculine women prize-winners at 
college.^ Women have a surer instinct of life than men, and 
the Chinese have it more than other people. The Chinese 
depend largely upon their intuition for solving all nature’s 
mysteries, that same ‘‘intuition” or “sixth sense” which makes 
many women believe a thing is so because it is so. And finally 
Chinese lo^c is highly personal, like women’s logic. A woman 
would not introduce a professor of ichthyology as professor of 
ichthyology, but as the brother-in-law of Colonel Harrison 
who died in India while she was undergoing an operation for 
appendicitis in New York by that lovable old Doctor Cabot 
you should look at his handsome forehead. In the same way, 
a Chinese judge cannot think of law as an abstract entity, but 
as a flexible quantity as it should be personally applied to 
Colonel Huang or Major Li. Accordingly, any law which is 
not personal enough to respond to the personality of Colonel 

^ This refers, of course, to general womajihood as brought about bv the 
present social system. ^ 



THE CHINESE MIND 77 

Huang or Major Li is inhuman and therefore no law at all. 
Chinese justice is an art, not a science. 

Jespersen, in his well-known book, The Growth and Structure 
of English^ once referred to the masculine qualities of the English 
language by pointing to its love of economy, common sense 
and forcefulness. Without wishing to contradict so great an 
authority on the English language, I beg to differ on a point 
which concerns the sexes. Common sense and the practical 
mind are characteristics of women rather than of men, who 
are more liable to take their feet off the ground and soar to 
impossible heights. The Chinese language and grammar show 
this femininity exactly because the language, in its form, syntax 
and vocabulary, reveals an extreme simplicity of thinking, 
concreteness of imagery and economy of syntactical relation- 
ships. 

This simplicity is best illustrated from pidgin, which is 
English meat with Chinese bones, as we say in China. There 
is no reason why a sentence like ‘^He come, you no come; you 
come, he no come” should not be considered as clear as the 
more roundabout ‘‘You needn’t come, if he comes, and he 
.needn’t come, if you come.” In fact, this simplicity makes for 
clarity of expression. Moon, in Dean's English^ quotes an English 
Somerset farmer as testifying before the judge: “He’d a stick, 
and he’d a stick, and he licked he, and he licked he; if he licked 
he as hard as he licked he, he’d a killed he, and not he he,” 
and this seems to me a much more sensible way of talking than 
one with the Germanic case-distinctions. For according to the 
Chinese, the difference between “I lick he” and “he lick I” is 
perfectly clear without the subjective-accusative complex, and 
the adding of the third person singular ending “s” is as super- 
fluous as is already proved to be in the past tense (I had, he 
had; I went, he went). Actually lots of people are saying “us 
girls” and “them things” without ever being misunderstood 
or losing anything except a meaningless “class” which has 
nothing to do with the beauty of expression. I have great hope 
that English and American professors will one day bravely 
and respectably pronounce a “he don’t” in the classrooms and 
that the English language may one day become as sensible 
and clear as the Chinese, through the influence of pidgin. 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


78 

A certain feminine practical instinct has already guided 
the English to abbreviate all their subordinate clauses as much 
as possible, like “weather permitting/’ “God willing/’ “if 
possible/’ “whenever necessary/’ “as expected/’ “if I don’t 
{not shall not) come back to-night/’ and “if war breaks out 
{not shall break out) next week.” Jespersen already mentions 
such examples of Chinese simplicity in Enghsh as “first come, 
first served,” “no cure, no pay,” “once bitten, twice shy,” 
which are all standard pidgin. They are beginning to drop 
the “whom,” too (“Who are you speaking to?”). English 
grammar is therefore not far from salvation. The Chinese love 
of simplicity is, however, far ahead, as in the expression “Sit 
eat mountain empty” which to the Chinese clearly means 
that “if you only sit and eat and do nothing, even a fortune as 
big as a mountain will vanish.” Therefore it will be some time 
before the English can catch up with us. 

The Chinese concrete way of thinking can also be illustrated 
by the nature of its abstract terms and prevalence of proverbs 
and metaphoric expressions. An abstract notion is often ex- 
pressed by the combination of two concrete qualities, as ‘‘big- 
small” for “size,” “long-short” for “length,” “broad-narrow” 
for “breadth” (“What is the big-small of your shoes?”) . “Long” 
and “short” also refer to the right and wrong of parties in 
dispute, as the Chinese expression is whether “one’s argument 
is long (or short)” and therefore we have expressions like “I 
don’t care for its long-short” (similar to the English “the long 
and the short of it is. , . .”) and “that man has no right- 
wrong” meaning he is a good man because he preserves a 
God-like indifference toward all questions, and does not get 
involved in private disputes. Abstract endings like “-ness” 
are also unknown in Chinese, and the Chinese simply say, with 
Mencius, that “the white of a white horse is not the same as 
the white of a white jade.” This has a bearing on their lack oi 
analytic thinking. 

Women, so fax as I know, avoid using abstract terms. This. 
I think, has been proved by an analytical study of the vocab- 
ulary of women authors. (The analytical, statistical methoc 
is in itself a habit of the Western mind, for the Chinese has fai 
too much common sense to go to the trouble of counting word 



THE CHINESE MIND 


79 

to prove it. When he feels the truth directly that women’s 
vocabulary in speech and writing is decidedly less abstract, 
that is sufficient for him.) With the Chinese as with women, 
concrete imagery always takes the place of abstract termin- 
ology. The highly academic sentence: ‘^There is no difference 
but difference of degree between different degrees of difference 
and no difference,” cannot be exactly reproduced in Chinese, 
and a Chinese translator would probably substitute for it the 
Mencian question: ‘‘What is the difference between running 
away fifty steps and running away a hundred steps [in battle]?” 
Such a substitute expression loses in definition and exactness, 
but gains in intelligibility. To say, “How could I perceive 
his inner mental processes?” is not so intelligible as “How could 
I know what is going on in his mind?”, and this in turn is 
decidedly less affective than the Chinese “Am I a tapeworm 
in his belly?” 

Chinese thought, therefore, always remains on the periphery 
of the visible world, and this helps a sense of fact which is the 
foundation of experience and wisdom. This dislike of abstract 
terms is further seen in the Chinese names for classifications 
which usually require sharply defined terms. Instead, the 
Chinese always seek the most expressive names for different 
categories. Thus in Chinese literary criticism there are different 
methods of writing called “the method of watching a fire 
across the liver” (detachment of style), “the method of dragon- 
flies skimming the water surface” (lightness of touch), “the 
method of painting a dragon and dotting its eyes” (bringing 
out the salient points), the method of releasing a captive before 
capturing him” (playing about a subject), “the method of 
showing the dragon’s head without its tail” (freedom of move- 
ment and waywardness of thought), “the method of a sharp 
precipice overhanging a ten-thousand-feet ravine” (abruptness 
of ending), “the method of letting blood by one needle-prick” 
(direct, epigrammatic gibe), “the method of going straight 
into the fray with one knife” (direct opening), “the method of 
announcing a campaign on the east and marching to the west” 
(surprise attack), “the method of side-stabs and flanking 
attacks” (light raillery), “the method of a light mist hanging 
over a grey lake” (mellow and toned-down style), “the method 



8o my country and my people 

of layers of clouds and hiUtops” (accumulation), “the method of 
throwing lighted firecrackers at a horse’s buttocks (final stab 
toward conclusion) etc., etc. Such names suggest picturesque 
terms like the “bow-wow,” “pooh-pooh and sing-song 

theories” of the origin of speech. _ ^ . 

This profuseness of imagery and paucity of abstract termin- 
ology has an influence on the style of writing and, consequentiy, 
on the style of thought. On the one hand, it makes for vivid- 
ness: on the other, it may easily degenerate into a sensel^s 
decorativeness without exact content, which has been the 
besetting sin of many periods of Chinese literature, and against 
which Han Yu in the T’ang Dynasty set up a revolt. Such a 
style suffers from lack of exactness of expression, but at its best 
it brings about, as in the best “non-clapical” novels, a saunter- 
ing prose, racy, idiomatic and smelling of the soil, hke^Ae 
prose of Swift and Defoe, “in the best EngMsh tradition, as 
we say It also avoids the pitfalls of a type of academic jargon 
which is rapidly growing in American univpity circles 
especially among the psychologists and sociologists, who t^k 
of human life only in terms of “factors,’ processes,^ in- 
dividualization,” “departmentalization,” “quotas of ambition,^^ 
“standardization of anger” and “coefficients of happmess. 
Such a style is practically untranslatable into Chinese, although 
some ludicrous efforts have been made in it under the slogan 
of “Europeanization of Chinese,” which is rapidly dying out 
of vogue. Translation from English into Chinese is hardest 
in scientific treatises, while translation from Chinese into 
Pnglkb is hardest in poetry and decorative prose, where 
every word contains an image. 


III. Lack of Science 

Sufficient discussion of the characteristics of Chinese thinking 
has been made to enable us to appreciate the cause of their 
failure to develop natural science. The Greeks laid the found- 
ation of natural science because the Greek mind was essentially 
an analytical mind, a fact which is proved by the striking 
modernity of Aristotle. The Egyptians developed geometry and 



THE CHINESE MIND 8l 

astronomy, sciences which required an analytical mind: and 
the Hindus developed a grammar of their own. The Chinese, 
with all their native intelligence, never developed a science of 
grammar, and their mathematics and astronomical knowledge 
have all been imported. For the Chinese mind delights only 
in moral platitudes, and their abstract terms like “'benevolence,” 
“kindliness,” “propriety” and “loyalty” are so general that 
in such discussions they are naturally lost in vague generalities. 

Of all the ancient philosophers of the Chou Dynasty, only 
Motse and Hanfeitse developed a style akin to cogent reason- 
ing. Mencius, who was undoubtedly a great sophist, cared 
only for such big words as “utility” and “righteousness.” All 
the rest of them, like Chuangtse, Liehtse and Huainantse, 
delighted in graceful metaphors. The disciples of Motse, Huei 
Shih and Kungsun Lung, who were great sophists, were 
interested in spinning scholastic conundrums, and in en- 
deavouring to prove such propositions as “eggs have hair on 
them,” “horses lay eggs,” “a dog may be a lamb,” “a chicken 
has three legs,” “jfire is not warm,” “the wheel never touches 
the ground,” “a tortoise is longer than a snake,” etc. The 
scholars of the Han Dynasty, which soon followed, were interested 
only in making Alexandrian commentaries on the classics of 
the preceding period. The Ch’in scholars after them revived 
Taoism and depended on their “intuition” for the solving of 
the mysteries of their own bodies and the universe. Experi- 
mentation was never thought of, and no scientific method 
had been developed. The Sung philosophers reinterpreted 
Confucianism in the light of Buddhism, and transformed it 
into a system of mental discipline and moral hygiene. They de- 
veloped a reputation for grasping the general content of a book 
“wiAout wanting to know it thoroughly.” The Sung scholars 
had therefore the most unscientific philology, or no philology at 
all. Only as late as the Ch*ing (Manchu) Dynasty was there 
developed a comparative method, which at once put the Ch’ing 
philology on a height unattained before. Ch'ing philology 
was the nearest approach to a scientific method in China. 

It is easy to see why the Chinese mind cannot develop a 
scientific method; for the scientific method, besides being 
analytical, always involves an amount of stupid drudgery. 



82 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


while the Chinese believe in flashes of common sense and 
insight. And inductive reasoning, carried over to human 
relationships (in which the Chinese are primarily interested) , 
often results in a form of stupidity not so rare in American 
universities. There are to-day doctorate dissertations in the 
inductive method which would make Bacon turn in his grave. 
No Chinese could possibly be stupid enough to write a dis- 
sertation on ice-cream, and after a series of careful observations, 
announce the staggering conclusion that ‘'the primary 
function of sugar [in the manufacture of ice-cream] is to 
sweeten it, or after a methodical study in “Time and Motion 
Comparison on Four Methods of Dish- washing’’ happily 
perceive that “stooping and lifting are fatiguing” or that, 
in “A Study of the Bacterial Content of Cotton Undershirts,” 
“the number of bacteria tends to increase with the length of 
time garments are worn.”^ A newspaper report several years 
ago stated that a University of Chicago student, after making 
a “comparative study” of the impressional power of various 
types of lettering, found that the blacker the lineSy the more striking 
they are to the eye. 

This sort of stupidity, although useful to business advertise- 
ment, could really be arrived at, I think, just as correctly by 
a moment of Chinese common sense and “intuition.” The 
best cartoon I have ever seen in Punch is that of a congress of 
behaviourists who, after passing a number of pig “subjects” 
through a test, with a thermometer in the snout and a pearl 
necklace dangling in front, unanimously resolve that pigs do 
not respond to the sight of jewellery. These things cannot be 
merely prostitution of the scientific method, for we find that 
Professor Cason of Rochester University read a paper at the 
Ninth Annual International Conference of Psychologists on the 
“Origin and Nature of Common Annoyances,” in which he 
had noted 21,000 kinds of annoyances, which, after deducting 
duplications and “spurious annoyances,” were later reduced 

^ Teachers* College Record, Columbia University, Feb., 1930, p. 47^, quoted 
by Abr aham Flexner: Universities, American, English and German. 

2 Mexner, ibid. **K dissertation submitted to the Graduate Faculty in 
candidacy for degree of Master of Arts,” University of Chicago. 

2 il^exner, ibid. **A dissertation submitted in partial fulfilment of the 
requirements of Kansas State Agricultural College for Degree of Doctor ol 
Science.'^ 



THE CHINESE MIND 


83 

to 507 (!), and in which he succeeded in grading these '^annoy- 
ances,” like 26 marks for “hair in food,” 2 for “the sight of a 
bald head’’ and 24 for “cockroaches.” 

A certain amount of stupid drudgery is of course part and 
parcel of true scientific work. Only true scientific discipline 
can enable a scientist to take delight in the discovery that an 
earthworm has a certain protective covering, for it is on the 
accumulation of such minutely observed facts that science 
grew from generation to generation to its present magnificent 
attainments. Without that scientific outlook, and with a large 
share of humour and common sense, the Chinese must neces- 
sarily consider the study and observation of the life of an earth- 
worm or of a gold-fish as beneath the dignity of a scholar. 

IV. Logic 

This brings us to the problem of Chinese logic, which is based 
on the Chinese conception of truth. Truth, according to Chinese, 
can never be proved: it can only be suggested. Chuangtse long 
ago pointed out the subjectivity of knowledge in his CHiwuhm: 

In an argument between you and me, you think you have 
got the better of me, and I will not admit your superiority. 
Then are you really right, and I really wrong? I think I 
have got the better of you and you will not admit my 
superiority — then am I really right and you really wrong? Or 
perhaps are we both right, or perhaps are we both wrong? 
This you and I cannot know. Thus we are encircled in 
darkness, and who is going to establish the truth? If we let a 
man who agrees with you establish it, then he already agrees 
with you, so how could he establish it? If we let one who 
agrees with me establish the truth, then he already agrees 
with me, so how could he establish it? If we let one who 
disagrees with both of us establish the truth, then he already 
disagrees with both of us, so how could he establish it? If 
we let one who agrees with both of us establish the truth, 
then he already agrees with both of us, so how could he 
establish it? Thus you and I and other people cannot know 
the truth, and how can we wait for the other one? 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


84 

According to this theory of knowledge, truth cannot be 
proved, although it may be grasped by the mind in a ‘‘dialectic 
without words” (Ghuangtse). One “knows it is so without 
knowing why it is so.” or truth, is that which we know 

not the manner of,” It can therefore be felt only by a sort of 
intuitive perception. The Chinese, without all consciously 
accepting this Chuangtsean epistemology, essentially agree 
with it. Instead of relying on logic, which is never developed 
as a science, they rely on the perhaps healthier common sense. 
Anything like cogent reasoning is unknown in Chinese litera- 
ture, for the Chinese inherently disbelieve in it. Consequently 
no dialectic has been evolved, and the scientific treatise as a 
literary form is unknown. 

Bernhard Karlgren recently wrote a paper showing the 
fallacies of many arguments used by Chinese “higher critics” 
in pro\ing the genuineness or spuriousness of ancient works. 
Some of the mistakes really seem childish, but they only seem 
so after the application of the Western method. A Chinese 
never writes a treatise of ten thousand, or even five thousand, 
words to establish a point. He puts down only a note about 
it, leaving it to be sustained or disproved by posterity on its 
intrinsic merit. That is why Chinese scholars always bequeath 
to us so many collections of “notebooks,” called shuipi ov pichi^ 
consisting of unclassified paragraphs, in which opinions on 
the authorship of literary works and corrections of errors in 
historical records are mixed up with accounts of Siamese 
twins, fox spirits and sketches of a red-bearded hero or a 
centipede-eating recluse. 

A Chinese author presents you with one or two arguments 
and then states his conclusions: in reading him, you seldorr 
see hm arriving at the conclusion, for the arguments anc 
evidences are never long, but you see in a flash that he already 
has it. The best of such notebooks, like the Jih-chih4u of Ki 
Yenwu (beginning of the seventeenth century), establish theii 
reputation, not by their logic but by the essential correctnesi 
of their statements, which can only be proved or disproved b^ 
posterity. The writing of two or three lines in Ku’s JSfotebooi 
was sometimes the result of years of research and investigation 
wlitrVi sriftntific enou 2 -h. and the determination of a singL 



THE CHINESE MIND 


85 

point of historic fact might have involved repeated trips and 
an encyclopsedic erudition, but his errors are difiScult to check 
and the fact that he is correct is not immediately visible, and 
can only be appreciated because no writer in the three centuries 
after him has been able to establish a point against him. 

Thus we see an opposition of *‘logic’’ versus common sense, 
which takes the place of inductive and deductive reasoning in 
China. Common sense is often saner because the analytic 
reasoning looks at truth by cutting it up into various aspects, 
thus throwing them out of their natural bearings, while common 
sense seizes the situation as a living whole. Women have a 
more robust common sense than men, and in times of any 
emergency, I always depend on the judgment of a woman 
rather tlian that of a man. They have a way of sizing up a 
situation in its totality without being distracted by its in- 
dividual aspects. In the best Chinese novels, like the Red 
Chamber Dream and the Tehsao Paqyen (An Uncouth Old Maris 
Chats) ^ the women are pictured as the soundest judges of 
situa*tions, and their speech has a way of putting it as a rounded 
whole which is extremely fascinating. Logic without such 
common sense is dangerous, because when a man holds an 
opinion it is easy enough for him, with his academic brain, to 
evolve arguments “a,” “b” and “c” to his own satisfaction, 
and yet he may be like the scholar, Mr. Casaubon, in 
Middlemarch who fails to perceive what every man could 
perceive in the life of his own wife. 

This religion of common sense has a philosophic basis. It 
is interesting to note that the Chinese do not judge the correct- 
ness of a proposition by the appeal to reason alone, but by 
the double appeal to reason and to human nature. The Chinese 
word for ‘‘reasonableness’’ is cfiingli^ which is composed of 
two elements, cKing (jmKing)^ or human nature, and li (fienli), 
or eternal reason. Ch'ing represents the flexible, human element, 
while li represents the immutable law of the universe. Out of 
the combination of these two factors comes the standard of 
judgment for a course of action or an historical thesis. 

Something of this distinction may be seen in the English 
contrast between “reason” and “reasonableness.” It was 
Aristotle, I believe, who said that man is a reasoning, but not 



86 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE. 


a reasonable, being. Chinese philosophy admits this, but adds 
that man should try to be a reasonable, and not a merely 
reasoning, being. By the Chinese, reasonableness is placed 
on a higher level than reason. For while reason is abstract, 
analytical, idealistic and inclined toward logical extremes, 
the spirit of reasonableness is always more realistic, more human, 
in closer touch with reality, and more truly understanding and 
appreciative of the correct situation. 

For a Westerner it is usually sufficient for a proposition to 
be logically sound. For a Ch nese it is not sufficient that a 
proposition be logically correct, but it must be at the same 
time in accord with human nature. In fact, to be “in accord 
with human nature,” to be cfdnch’ing, is a greater considera- 
tion than to be logical. For a theory could be so logical as 
to be totally devoid of comfe<ar sense. The Chinese are willing 
to do anytliing against reason, but they wiU not accept any- 
thing that is not plausible in the light of human nature. This 
spirit of reasonableness and this religion of common sense have 
a most important bearing on the Chinese ideal of life, and 
result in the Doctrine of the Golden Mean, which I shall 
discuss in the following chapter. 


V. iNTOTnON 

Nevertheless, this type of thinking has its limitations, too, 
for the logic of common sense can only be applied to humar 
affairs and actions; it cannot be applied to the solution of th( 
riddles of the universe. One can use reasonableness to settl« 
a dispute but not to locate the relative positions of the hear 
and liver or determine the function of the pancreatic juice 
Hence in divining nature’s mysteries and the secrets of th< 
hmnan body, the Chinese have to resort largely to intuition 
Strangely enough, they have intuitively felt the heart to b* 
on the right and the liver to be on the left side of the humai 
chest. An erudite Chinese scholar, whose voluminous JN'ote 
books'^ are widely read, came across a copy of Human Anatomy 
translated by the Jesuits Jacobus Rho, James Terrence, anc 

-t r\i .-u-.i.-u, T 



THEGHINESEMIND 87 

Nicolaus Longobardi, and finding that in the book the heart 
s placed on the left and the liver on the right, decided that 
/Westerners have different internal organs from the Chinese, 
ind deduced therefrom the important conclusion that since 
heir internal organs are different, therefore their religion 
nust be also different — this deduction is in itself a perfect 
example of intuitive reasoning — and hence only Chinese whose 
ntemal organs are imperfect could possibly become Christian 
:onverts. The erudite scholar slyly remarked that if the Jesuits 
)nly knew this fact they would not be interested in preaching 
Christianity in China and in making converts of half-normal 
Deings. 

Such assertions are made in perfect seriousness and in fact 
are typical of Chinese ^‘intuition’’ in the realms of natural 
science and human physiology. One begins to believe that 
there is something after all in the scientific method, for with 
this method, though one might be seriously concerned in the 
findings that the ‘‘primary function of sugar [in the manu- 
facture of ice-cream] is to sweeten it,’^ yet one could be 
saved from the other sort of puerile thinking represented by 
the author of the above Notebooks. He could at least have felt 
the palpitation of his heart by his own hand, but evidently 
the Chinese scholar never descended to manual labour. 

Free thus from stupid drudgery in the use of his eyes and 
his hands, and having a naive faith in the power of his “in- 
tuition,” the Chinese scholar goes about explaining the mysteries 
of the human body and the universe to his own satisfaction. 
The whole science of Chinese medicine and physiology is 
based on the Taoistic philosophy of the Five Elements — 
Gold, Wood, Water, Fire and Earth. The human body is in 
itself a symbol of the universe in its composition. The kidneys 
represent the water element, the stomach represents the earth 
element, the liver represents the fire element, the lungs repre- 
sent the gold element and the heart represents the wood 
element. Not that this medicine does not work in practice. A 
man suffering from high blood-pressure is considered to have 
too warm a “liver-fire,” while a man suffering from indigestion 
may be referred to as having too much earth, and a laxative 
is used to encourage the function of the kidneys by way of 



88 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

helping the ^ "water element,” and the indigestion is usually 
cured. If a man is suffering from nervous trouble, he should 
drink a lot of water and use palliatives, so that the ""kidney- 
water” will go up and dampen a little of the ""liver-fire” and 
thus help maintain in him a more equable temper. There is 
no doubt that Chinese medicine works: the quarrel is only 
with its diagnosis. 

Here enter the survivals of savage traits in Chinese thinking. 
Unchecked by a scientific method, ""intuition” has free room 
and often borders on a naive imagination. Some kinds of 
Chinese medicine are based on a mere play of words or on 
some fantastic association of thought. The toad who has a 
wrinkled skin is used in the cure of skin troubles, and a peculiar 
kind of frog that lives in cool, deep ponds on hillsides is supposed 
to have a ""cooling” effect on the bodily system. For the last 
two years the local papers in Shanghai have been full of 
advertisements of a certain ""lung-shaped plant” which is 
produced in Szechuen and recommended as the best cure for 
tuberculosis. And this goes on in an uninterrupted series until 
we come to the popular belief that a schoolboy should not eat 
chicken’s claws lest he develop the habit of scratching the 
pages of his book. 

The superstitious belief in the power of words may be traced 
in all departments of life, for here we are dealing neither with 
logic nor with common sense, but with a survival of the 
savage state of mind which does not distinguish, and is not 
interested in distinguishing playful fancy from serious truth. 
The bat and the deer are popular motives for embroidery 
work because the word ""bat” {fu) is a homonym for ""luck” 
and the word ""deer” {In) is a homonym for ""official power.” 
The Chinese bride and bridegroom have, after the wedding 
ceremony, a dinner A deux consisting of a pig’s heart, because 
they are thus going to have ""the same heart,” which is the 
word for ""harmony.” 

It is difiicult to say how much of it is serious belief and how 
much of it mere light playful fancy. Certain taboos are evidently 
taken quite seriously, for the boatman will look troubled when 
you turn over the fish at dinner in the boat, which suggests 
the "overturning” of the boat itself. He does not quite know 



THE CHINESE MIND 


89 

whether it is true or not, but ‘‘so people say/* and he is not 
interested in undertaking a research to verify it. It is a state 
of mind that belongs to the borderland of truth and fiction, 
where truth and fiction are pleasurably and poetically mixed, 
as in a dreamer’s tale. 


VI. Imagination 

This naivete v/e must try to understand, for it brings us to the 
world of the Chinese imagination and Chinese religion. By 
religion, I mean a good heaven and a hot hell and real, living 
spirits, and not the “kingdom . . . within you” of the Boston 
Unitarians, or the belief in the impersonal and amorphous 
“Power in and around us, which makes for righteousness” of 
Matthew Arnold. 

This world of the imagination is not confined to the illiterate. 
Confucius himself exhibited a certain naiveti regarding the 
spirits when he said, “If one were to try to please the god of 
the south-west corner of the house, it would be preferable to 
try to please the god of the kitchen stove.” He spoke of the 
spirits with an ease of mind which was truly charming: “Offer 
sacrifices to the spirits as if the spirits were present,” and 
“Respect the spirits, but keep them at a distance.” He was 
willing to let the spirits exist if they would let him go his own 
way. 

Han Yii, the great Confucianist of the T’ang Dynasty, 
continued this naive attitude. He was officially reprimanded 
and compelled to go to the neighbourhood of modern Swatow 
to serve as a magistrate, and when this district was suffering 
from an invasion of crocodiles, he wrote a high-flown sacrificial 
appeal to the crocodiles. The crocodiles seemed to appre- 
ciate his literary style (for he was one of the best writers in 
China’s history), and, according to his own testimony, they 
disappeared from the district. It would be futile to ask if he 
sincerely believed in it or not. To ask that question is com- 
pletely to misunderstand the situation, for his reply would 
most probably be: How can I know it is true, but how can 
you know it is untrue? It was an agnosticism which openly 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


90 

admitted the impossibility of setding the question with our 
mental powers, and therefore brushed it aside. Han Yti’s was 
a powerful mind, and he was not superstitious, for he was the 
man who wrote the famous essay dissuading the Emperor 
from sending a delegation to bring back the ‘^Buddha’s bones'* 
from India. I am sure he was half laughing when he composed 
that sacrificial appeal to the crocodiles. There have been other 
powerful minds, more rationalistic in temperament, like that 
of Ssuma Wenkung of the following dynasty, who tried to 
disprove the Buddhistic hell by asking why the Chinese people 
never dreamed of hell until they heard of Buddhism. But 
such rationalism is not typical of the Chinese mind. 

To me the most characteristic creatures of the Chinese 
imagination are the lovely female ghosts that the Chinese 
scholar spins out of his imagination, such as those told in the 
Strange Stories From a Chinese Studio?- The stories are about the 
female ghosts and spirits of wronged and disgraced women who 
possess the body of some maid-servant and thus communicate 
their complaints to the living, and the dead sweetheart who 
returns to her lover and bears him children. It is these stories 
with their human touch which are most loved by the Chinese 
people. For the Chinese ghosts are wonderfully human, and 
the female ghosts are wonderfully lovely, too: they love and 
become jealous and take part in the ordinary human life. 

It is not the kind of ghosts that scholars need fear when they 
are alone at night in their studies. For when the lamp is 
burning low and the scholar has fallen asleep, he hears the 
noise of a silken dress and opens his eyes to see a demure maiden 
of sixteen or seventeen, with a wistful look and a serene air, 
looking and smiling at him. She is usually a passionate 
creature, for I have no doubt these stories are the wish-fulfil- 
ment of the solitary scholars. But she can bring him money 
and help him through poverty, by all sorts of cunning wiles. 
She can nurse him through siclmess with more gentleness than 
an average modem nurse. What is stranger still, she will 
sometimes try to save money for him, and will wait patiently 
for him during his months or years of absence. She can there- 
fore be chaste as well. The period of this cohabitation may 

1 Translated by Professor H. A. Giles. 



THE CHINESE MIND 


93 

last a few days or weeks or it may extend to a generation 
until she has borne him children, who, after their success ir 
examinations, come back for their mother and then find thai 
the gorgeous mansion has disappeared and in its place is an 
old, old grave, with a hole underground, where lies a dead old 
mother fox. For she is only one of those fox spirits the Chinese 
delight to tell about. Sometimes she leaves behind a note 
saying that she was sorry to leave them, but that she was a fox 
and only wanted to enjoy human life, and now, since she has 
seen them prosper, she is grateful and hopes they will forgive her. 
This is typical of the Chinese imagination which, without 
soaring aloft to God-like heights, invests the creatures of its 
mind with human passions and human sorrows. It has the 
pagan virtue of accepting the imaginary with the real, and 
has no desire for a world perfectly rationalized and completely 
explained. This quality of the Chinese imagination is so little 
known that I will give here a translation of a tale, The Tale of 
CKienniang^ handed down from the T’ang Dynasty. I don’t 
know whether the story is true or not, but the affair happened 
in the years around a.d. 690, during the reign of the Empress 
Wuhou. Our novels, dramas and scholars’ works are fuU of 
this type of story, in which the supernatural is made believable 
because it is made human, 

Ch’ienniang was the daughter of Mr. Chang Yi, an 
official in Hunan. She had a cousin by the name of Wang 
Chou, who was a brilliant and handsome young man. They 
had grown up together from childhood, and as her father 
was very fond of the young boy, he had said that he would 
take Wang Chou as his son-in-law. This promise they had 
both heard, and as she was the only child, and they were 
very close together, their love grew from day to day. They 
were now grown-up young people, and even had intimate 
relationships with each other. Unfortunately, her father 
was the only man who failed to perceive this. One day a 
young official came to beg for her hand from her father, and, 
ignoring or forgetting his early promise, he consented. Ch’ien- 
niang, tom between love and filial piety, was ready to die 
with grief, while the young man was so disgusted that he 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


92 

decided he would go abroad rather than stay and see his 
sweetheart become the bride of another person. So he made 
up a pretext and informed his uncle that he had to go away 
to the capital. As the uncle could not persuade him to 
stay, he gave him money and presents and prepared a fare- 
well feast for him. Wang Chou, sad to take leave of his 
lover, was thinking it all over while he partook of the feast, 
and he told himself that it was best to go, rather than remain 
to carry on a hopeless romance. 

So Wang Chou set out on a boat of an afternoon, and 
before he had gone a few miles it was already dark and he 
told the boatman to tie up the boat along shore and rest 
for the night. That night he could not sleep, and toward 
midnight he heard the sound of quick footsteps approaching. 
In a few minutes the sound had drawn near the boat. He 
got up and inquired, ‘‘ Who is there at this hour of the night?’’ 
*Tt is I, even Ch’ienniang,” was the reply. Surprised and 
delighted beyond his expectations, he led her down to the 
boat, and there she told him that she had hoped to be his 
wife, that her father had been unfair to him, and that she 
could not bear parting from him. She was afraid, too, that 
he, lonely and travelling in strange parts, might be driven 
to take his own life. So she had braved the censure of society 
and the anger of her parents and come to follow him where- 
ever he should go. Thus they were happy together and 
continued their journey to Szechuen. 

Five years passed happily and she bore him two sons. 
But they had no news from the family, and she was daily 
thinking of her parents. It was the only thing that marred 
their happiness. She did not know whether her parents were 
living and well or not, and one night she began telling Wang 
Chou how unhappy she was and that since she was the only 
child, she felt guilty of great filial impiety to leave the old 
parents thus. ‘‘This is your filial piety,” said her husband. 
“I am with you in thinking this way. But it seems that now 
after five years have passed, surely they are not still angry 
with us. Why not go home?” Ch’ienniang was overjoyed 
to hear this, and so they made preparations to go home with 
their two child ren. 



THE CHINESE MIND 


93 

When the boat had reached her home town, Wang Chou 
said to Ch’ienniang, do not know what state of mind 
your parents are in. So let me go alone first to find out.’* 
His heart was palpitating as he drew near his father-in-law’s 
house. On seeing his father-in-law, Wang Chou knelt down 
and kowtowed, and begged for forgiveness. On hearing 
this, Chang Yi was greatly surprised, and said, ‘^What are 
you talking about? Gh’ienniang has been lying unconscious 
in bed for these last five years since you left. She has never 
even left her bed.” am not lying,” said Wang Chou. 
“She is well and waiting in the boat.” 

Chang Yi did not know what to think, so he sent two maid- 
servants to see Ch’ienniang. They saw her sitting, well- 
dressed and happy, in the boat, and she even told the servants 
to convey her love to her parents. Bewildered, the two 
maid-servants ran home to make their report, and Chang Yi 
was still more greatly puzzled. Meanwhile, she who was 
lying in bed in her chamber had heard of the news, and it 
seemed her illness was gone, and there was light in her eyes. 
She rose up from her bed and dressed herself before her 
mirror. Smiling and without saying a word, she came 
straight to the boat. She who was in the boat was starting 
for home, and they met on the river-bank. When the two 
came close together, their bodies melted into one shape, and 
their dresses were double, and there appeared the old 
Ch’ienniang, as young and as lovely as ever. 

Both her parents were overjoyed, but they bade their 
servants keep the secret and not tell tire neighbours about 
it, in order to avoid gossip. So no one, except the close 
relatives of the Chang family, ever knew of this strange 
happening. 

Wang Chou and Ch’ienniang lived* on as husband and 
wife for over forty years before they died. 

It is perhaps well that the world is not completely explained 
and that there is some room for this type of imagination. The 
proper use of imagination is to give beauty to the world. For 
as in the moral life human intelligence is used to convert the 
world into a place of contentment for human existence, so in 



94. MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the artistic life the gift of imagination is used to cast over the 
commonplace workaday world a veil of beauty to make it 
throb with our aesthetic enjoyment. In China, the art of 
living is one with the arts of painting and poetry. As Li Liweng 
at the end of the seventeenth century expressed it in a dramatic 
passage. 


First we look at the hills in the painting. 

Then we look at the painting in the hills. 

The imagination, by its contemplation of sorrow and poverty, 
turns sorrow and poverty into beauty, as we see so clearly in 
Tu Fu’s poetry. For beauty resides in the huts, in the grass- 
hoppers, in the cicada’s wings, and, strangest of all, in the 
rocks, too. The Chinese alone in the world would paint a 
piece of jagged rock and hang it on the wall for daily con- 
templation and enjoyment. These rocks — they are not the 
carved stones of Venice or of Florence, but the rugged and 
untamed works of nature, still retaining the rough rhythm 
of their natural appearance, from which our aesthetic enjoy- 
ment is drawn. I think the enjoyment of the rhythm of a 
common clock is the last refinement of the Chinese mind. 
Indeed the Chinese mind is as keen to detect the beauty in a 
common pebble as it is anxious to squeeze the last ounce of 
happiness from an insecure and fate-ruled world. That paint- 
ing of a solitary rugged rock or of a cat watching a grasshopper 
he would hang on his waU and contemplate, although a civil 
war might be raging outside his very doors. To find beauty 
in common life, that is the value of the Wordsworthian and 
the Chinese imagination, for Wordsworth is the most Chinese 
in spirit of all English poets. “If you do not run away from 
the raindrops, you wiU find them most beautiful,” said Hsiao 
Shihwei at the end of the Ming Dynasty. He was speaking of 
the familiar style of writing diaries. But it was not only a 
literary doctrine. It was a doctrine of life. 



Chapter Four 

IDEALS OF LIFE 


1. Chinese Humanism 

TO understand the Chinese ideal of life one must try to under- 
stand Chinese humanism. The term “humanism” is am- 
biguous. Chinese hum anis m, however, has a very definite 
meaning. It implies, first a just conception of the ends of 
human life; secondly, a complete devotion to these ends; and 
thirdly, the attainment of these ends by the spirit of human 
reasonableness or the Doctrine of the Golden Mean, which 
may also be called the Religion of Common Sense. 

The question of the meaning of life has perplexed Western 
philosophers, and it has never been solved — ^naturally, when 
one starts out from the teleological point of view, according 
to which all things, including mosquitoes and typhoid germs, 
are created for the good of this cocksure humanity. As there 
is usually too much pain and misery in this life to allow a 
perfect answer to satisfy man’s pride, teleology is therefore 
carried over to the next life, and this earthly life is then looked 
upon as a preparation for the life hereafter, in conformity 
with the logic of Socrates, which looked upon a ferocious wife 
as a natural provision for the training of the husband’s character. 
This way of dodging the horns of the dilemma sometimes 
gives peace of mind for a moment, but then the eternal question, 
“What is the meaning of life?” comes back. Others, like 
Nietzsche, take the bull by the horns, and refuse to assume 
that life rrmt have a meaning and believe that progress is in 
a circle, and human achievements are a savage dance, instead 
of a trip to the market. But still the question comes back 
eternally, like the sea-waves lapping upon the shore: “What 
is the meaning of life?” 

The Chinese humanists believe they have foimd the true 



my country and my people 


96 

end of life and arc conscious of it. For the Chinese the end 
of life lies not in life after death, for the idea that we live in 
order to die, as taught by Christianity, is incomprehensible; 
nor in Nirvana, for that is too metaphysical; nor in the satis- 
faction of accomplishment, for that is too vainglorious; nor 
yet in progress for progress’ sake, for that is meaningless. The 
true end, the Chinese have decided in a singularly clear manner, 
lies in the enjoyment of a simple life, especially the family life, 
and in harmonious social relationships. The first poem that a 
child learns in school runs: 

While soft clouds by warm breezes are wafted in the morn, 

Lured by flowers, past the river I roam on and on. 

They’ll say, “Look at that old man on a spree!” 

And know not that my spirit’s on happiness borne. 

That represents to the Chinese, not just a pleasant poetic 
mood but the svmmum bonum of life. The Chinese ideal of life 
is drunk through with this sentiment. It is an ideal of life 
that is neither particularly ambitious nor metaphysical, but 
nevertheless immensely real. It is, I must say, a brilliantly 
simple ideal, so brilliantly simple that only the matter-of- 
fact Chinese mind could have conceived it, and yet one often 
wonders how the West could have failed to see that the mean- 
ing of life lies in the sane and healthy enjoyment of it. The 
difference between China and the West seems to be that the 
Westerners have a greater capacity for getting and making 
more things and a lesser ability to enjoy them, while the 
Chinese have a greater determination and capacity to enjoy 
the few things they have. This trait, our concentration on 
earthly happiness, is as much a result as a cause of the absence 
of religion. For if one cannot believe in the life hereafter as 
the consummation of the present life, one is forced to make the 
most of this life before the farce is over. The absence of religion 
makes this concentration possible. 

From this a humanism has developed which frankly pro- 
claims a man-centred universe, and lays down the rule that 
the end of all knowledge is to serve human happiness. The 
humanizing of knowledge is not an easy thing, for the moment 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


97 

man swerves^ he is carried away by his logic and becomes a 
tool of his own knowledge. Only by a sharp and steadfast 
holding to the true end of human life as one sees it can human- 
ism maintain itself. Humanism occupies, for instance, a mean 
position between the other-worldliness of religion and the 
materialism of the modern world. Buddhism may have 
captured popular fancy in China, but against its influence 
the true Confucianist was always inwardly resentful, for it 
was, in the eyes of humanism, only an escape from Hfe, or a 
negation of the truly human life. 

On the other hand, the modem world, with its over-develop- 
ment of machinery, has not taken time to ensure that man 
enjoys what he makes. The glorification of the plumber in 
America has made the man forget that one can live a very 
happy life without hot and cold running water, and that in 
France and Germany many men have lived to comfortable 
old age and made important scientific discoveries and written 
masterpieces with their water jug and old-fashioned basin. 
There needs to be a religion which will transcribe Jesus* 
famous dictum about the Sabbath and constantly preach that 
the machine is made for man and not man made for the machine. 
For after all, the sum of all human wisdom and the problem 
of all human knowledge is how man shall remain a man and 
how he shall best enjoy his life. 


II. Religion 

Nothing is more striking than the Chinese humanist devotion 
to the true end of life as they conceive it, and the complete 
ignoring of all theological or metaphysical phantasies 
extraneous to it. When our great humanist Confucius was 
asked about the important question of death, his famous reply 
was, “Don’t know life — ^how know death?”^ An American 
Presbyterian minister once tried to drive home to me the 
importance of the question of immortality by referring to the 
alleged astronomic^ theory that the sun is gradually losing 

1 1 am using pidgin English here in order to retain the terseness and force 
of the original. 



98 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

its energy and that perhaps, after millions of years, life is sure 
to become extinct on this planet. ‘'Do you not realize, there- 
fore,” asked the minister, "that after all, the question of 
immortality is important?” I told him frankly I was unper- 
turbed. If human life has yet half a million years, that is 
enough for all practical purposes, and the rest is unnecessary 
metaphysical worry. That anybody’s soul should want to live 
for more than half a million years and not be perfectly content 
is a kind of preposterousness that an Oriental mind cannot 
understand. The Presbyterian minister’s worry is as charac- 
teristically Teutonic as my unconcern is characteristically 
Chinese. The Chinese, therefore, make rather poor Christian 
converts, and if they are to be converted they should all 
become Quakers, for that is the only sort of Christianity that 
the Chinese can understand. Christianity as a way of life 
can impress the Chinese, but Christian creeds and dogmas will 
be crushed, not by a superior Gonfucian logic but by ordinary 
Confucian common sense. Buddhism itself, when absorbed by 
the educated Chinese, became nothing but a system of mental 
hygiene, which is the essence of Sung philosophy. 

For a certain . hard-headedness characterizes the Chinese 
ideal of life. There may be imagination in Chinese paintings 
and poetry, but there is no imagination in Chinese ethics. 
Even in painting and poetry there is a sheer, whole-hearted, 
instinctive delight in commonplace life, and imagination is 
used to throw a veil of charm and beauty over this earthly life, 
rather than to escape from it. There is no doubt that the 
Chinese are in love with life, in love with this earth, and will 
not forsake it for an invisible heaven. They are in love with 
life, which is so sad and yet so beautiful, and in which moments 
of happiness are so precious because they are so transient. They 
are in love with life, with its kings and beggars, robbers and 
monks, funerals and weddings and childbirths and sicknesses 
and glowing sunsets and rainy nights and feasting days and 
wine-shop fracas. 

It is these details of life upon which the Chinese novelists 
fondly and untiringly dwell, details which are so real and 
human and significant because we humans are affected by 
them. Was it a sultry afternoon when the whole household 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


from mistress to servants had gone to sleep and Taiyii, sitting 
behind the beaded screen, heard the parrot calling the master’s 
name? Was it a mid-autumn day, that memorable mid- 
autumn day of a certain year, when all the sisters and Paoyii 
were gathered to write poems and mix in light raillery and 
bantering laughter over the feast of crabs, in a happiness so 
perfect that it could hardly last, like the full moon, as the 
Chinese saying goes? Or was it a pair of innocent newlyweds 
on their first reunion on a moonlit night, when they sat alone 
near a pond and prayed to the gods that their married life 
might last till death, but dark clouds came over the moon, and 
in the distance they heard a mysterious noise as if a wandering 
duck had splashed into the water, pursued by a prowling fox, 
and the young wife shivered and ran up a high fever the next 
day? Yes, life which is so poignantly beautiful is worth record- 
ing, down to its lowliest details. It seems nothing of this 
earthly life can be too material or too vulgar to enter literature. 
A characteristic of all Chinese novels is the incessant and never- 
tiring enumeration of the names of dishes served at a family 
feast or a traveller’s supper at an inn, followed frequently by . 
stomach aches and trips to the vacant lot which is the natural 
man’s toilet. So the Chinese novelists write and so the Chinese 
men and women live, and it is a life too full to be occupied with 
thoughts of immortality. 

This realism and tliis attached-to-the-earth quality of the 
Chinese ideal of life has a basis in Confucianism, which, unlike 
Christianity, is of the earth, earth-bom. For Jesus was a 
romanticist, Confucius a realist; Jesus was a mystic, Confucius 
a positivist; Jesus was a humanitarian, Confucius a humanist. 
In these two personalities we see typified the contrast between 
Hebrew religion and poetry and Chinese realism and common 
sense. Confucianism, strictly speaking, was not a religion: 
it had certain feelings toward life and the universe that bor- 
dered on the religious feeling, but it was not a religion. There 
are such great souls in the world who cannot get interested in 
the life hereafter or in the question of immortality or in the 
world of spirits in general. That type of philosophy could never 
satisfy the Germanic races, and certainly not tie Hebrews, 
but it satisfied the Chinese race — ^in general. We shall see 



lOO MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

below how it really never quite satisfied even the Chinese, and 
how that deficiency was made up for by a Taoist or Buddhist 
supernaturalism. But this supernaturalism seems in China 
to be separated in general from the question of the ideal of life: 
it represents rather the spiritual by-plays and outlets that merely 
help to make life endurable. 

So true was Confucianism to the humanist instinct that 
neither Confucius nor any of his disciples was ever made a god, 
although many lesser literary and niilitary figures in Chinese 
history were duly canonized or deified. A common woman, 
who suffered wrongs and faced death to uphold her chastity, 
might in an amazingly short time become a popular local 
goddess, prayed to by all the villagers. Typical of the humanist 
temperament is the fact that although idols were made of 
Kuan Yii, a brave and loyal general in the time of the Three 
Kingdoms, idols were not made of Confucius, nor of the 
ancestors in the halls of ancestral worship. Iconoclasts have 
really nothing to do when they enter a Confucian temple. 
In the Confucian and ancestral temples there are merely 
oblong wooden tablets, inscribed with characters bearing the 
names of the spirits they represent, having as little resemblance 
to idols as a calendar block. And in any case, these ancestral 
spirits are not gods, but merely human beings who have 
departed but who continue to take an interest in their progeny 
as they did in their lifetime. They can perhaps, if they are 
great souls, protect their descendants, but they themselves 
need their progeny’s protection and succour through offerings 
of food for Aeir hunger and burnt paper money for their sundry 
expenses in hell, from which place it is the duty of their children 
to save them by a Buddhist mass. In a word, they are to be 
cared for and served as they have been cared for and served 
by their children in their old age. That is about as close as 
Confucianism comes to religion in the matter of worship. 

/ I have often observed with interest the differences between 
a reli^ous culture like that of Christendom and a frankly 
agnostic culture like that of the Chinese, and how these differ- 
ences are adapted to man’s inner needs, which I assume are 
essentially the same for all human races. These differences 
correspond to die threefold actual functions of religion, as 



IDEALS OF LIFE lOI 

commonly understood. First, religion as an embodiment 
of priestcraft, with its dogmas, its apostolic succession, its 
appeal to miracles, its patent cures for sins and selling of 
pardons, its salvation “made easy” and its good solid heaven 
and hell. This religion, so eminendy saleable, is common to 
all peoples, the Chinese included, and may be regarded as 
satisfying man’s needs in certain stages of human culture. 
Because there is need for these things among the people, 
Taoism and Buddhism have furnished them to the Chinese, 
since Confucianism refused to furnish them. 

Secondly, there is religion as a sanction for moral conduct: 
here the Chinese and the Christian points of view differ 
widely. Humanist ethics is a man-centred, not a God-centred 
ethics. To the West, it seems hardly imaginable that the 
relationship between man and man (which is morality) could 
be maintained without reference to a Supreme Being, while 
to the Chinese it is equally amazing that men should not, or 
could not, behave toward one another as decent beings without 
thinking of their indirect relationship through a third party. 
It should seem possible to conceive that man should try to do 
good, simply because it is the human, decent thing to do. I 
have wondered what the development of European ethics 
would have been if it had not been overshadowed by Pauline 
theology. It would have developed, I think, by sheer necessity 
along the lines of Marcus Aurelius’s meditations. Pauline 
theology has brought in the Hebrew notion of sin, which has 
clouded the entire field of Christian ethics, and from which 
there seems no escape except by religion, such as is provided 
in the Doctrine of Redemption. As it is, a European ethics 
divorced from religion seems such a strange notion that it has 
seldom occurred to people’s minds. 

And thirdly, there is religion as an inspiration and living 
emotion, a feeling for the grim grandeur and mystery of the 
universe and a quest for security in life, satisfying man’s 
deepest spiritual instincts. There are moments in our lives, 
perhaps during the loss of our dear ones or during the period 
of convalescence from a great illness, or perhaps on a chiUy 
autumn morning as we look at the falling leaves and a sense 
of death and futility overcomes us, when we live more than the 



102 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


life of the senses and we look over the visible world to the 
Great Beyond. 

These moments come to the Chinese as to the Europeans, 
but the reactions are decidedly different. It has seemed to me, 
formerly a Christian and now a pagan, that though religion 
gives peace by having a ready-made answer to all these prob- 
lems, it decidedly detracts from the sense of the unfathomable 
mystery and the poignant sadness of this life, which we call 
poetry. Christian optimism kills all poetry. A pagan, who has 
not these ready-made answers to his problems and whose 
sense of mystery is for ever unquenched and whose craving for 
security is for ever unanswered and unanswerable, is driven 
inevitably to a kind of pantheistic poetry. Actually, poetry 
has taken over the function of religion as an inspiration and a 
living emotion in the Chinese scheme of life, as we shall see in 
the discussion on Chinese poetry. To the West, unused to this 
type of sheer pantheistic abandon to nature, religion seems the 
natural escape. But to the pagan, this religion seems to be 
based on the fear that there is not enough poetry and imagina- 
tion in this present life to satisfy the human being emotionally, 
the fear that there is not enough power and beauty in the beech 
forests of Denmark or the cool sands of the Mediterranean 
shore to comfort the wounded human soul, and the super- 
natural is then found necessary. 

But Confucian common sense, which dismisses super- 
naturalism as the realm of the unknowable and expends 
extremely little time over it, is equally emphatic in the assertion 
of the superiority of the human mind over nature and in the 
denial of nature’s way of life, or naturalism, as the human way, 
an attitude clearest in Mencius. The Confucian conception of 
man’s place in nature is that ''Heaven, earth and man” are 
r^arded as "the three geniuses of the universe.” This is a 
distinction somewhat corresponding to the Babbittian three- 
fold distinction of supematuralism, humanism and naturalism. 
Heaven is seen as consisting of the clouds, the stars, and all 
those unknowable forces which Western legal phraseology 
sums up as "acts of God,” while the earth is seen as consisting 
of mountains and rivers and all those forces ascribed in Greek 
mythology to Demeter, and man occupies an all-important 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


103 

place between the two. Man knows where he belongs in the 
scheme of things and is proud of his position. Like the Chinese 
roof, and unlike the Gothic spires, his spirit does not aspire to 
heaven but broods over the earth. Its greatest achievement 
is to attain a measure of harmony and happiness in this earthly 
life. 

The Chinese roof suggests, therefore, that happiness is first to 
be found in the home. Indeed, the home stands for me as a 
symbol of Chinese humanism. A masterpiece remains to be 
painted of an improved version of “Sacred and Profane Love.” 
There should be three women instead of two, a wan-faced 
nun (or a missionary lady with an umbrella), a voluptuous 
prostitute, and a radiant mother in her third month of preg- 
nancy. Of the three, the housewife should be the commonest, 
simplest, and yet most truly satisfying figure. They would thus 
stand for religion, humanism and naturalism, typifying the 
three ways of life. 

Such simplicity is difficult, for simplicity is the quality of 
great minds. The Chinese have achieved this simple ideal, not 
by mere laziness of effort but by a positive worship of simpHcity, 
or the Religion of Common Sense. How this was achieved we 
shall now see. 


III. The Doctiune of the Golden Mean 

The religion of common sense or the spirit of reasonableness 
is part and parcel of Confucian humanism. It is this spirit of 
reasonableness which has given birth to the Doctrine of the 
Golden Mean, the central doctrine of Confucianism. Reference 
has already been made in the preceding chapter to the spirit 
of reasonableness, as contrasted with logic or reason itself. It 
has been shown there that the spirit of reasonableness is largely 
intuitive and practically identical with English common sense. 
It has been further shown that for a Chinese it is not enough that 
a proposition be “logically correct”; it is much more important 
that it be “in accord with human nature.” 

The aim of the Chinese classical education has always been 
the cultivation of the reasonable man as the model of culture. 



104 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

An educated man should, above all, be a reasonable being, who 
is always characterized by his common sense, his love of moder- 
ation and restraint, and his hatred of abstract theories and 
logical extremes. Common sense is possessed by all common 
people. The academic scholar is in constant danger of losing 
this common sense. He is apt to indulge in excesses of theory; 
the reasonable man, or the Chinese man of culture, should 
avoid all excesses of theory and conduct. You have, for 
instance, the historian Froude saying that the divorce of 
Henry VIII from Catherine of Aragon was for purely political 
reasons, and you have Bishop Creighton claiming, on the other 
hand, that it was entirely dictated by animal lust,^ whereas 
the common-sense attitude should be that both considerations 
were effective, which is probably nearer the truth. In the 
West one scientist is infatuated by the idea of heredity and 
another is obsessed by the notion of environment, and each one 
goes about doggedly to prove his theory with great learning 
and stupidity, whereas the Oriental, without much cerebration, 
would allow something for both. A typically Chinese judgment 
is: is right, and B is not wrong either.” 

Such self-sufficiency is sometimes infuriating to a logical 
mind, but what of it? The reasonable mind keeps a balance 
when the logical mind has lost it. The idea that a Chinese 
painter could, like Picasso, take the perfectly logical remark 
that the world of objects could be reduced to cones, planes and 
angular lines and then proceed logically to carry that theory 
into painting is obviously impossible in China. We have a 
natural distrust of arguments that are too perfect and theories 
that are too logical. Against such logical freaks of theories, 
common sense is the best and most effective antidote. Bertrand 
Russell has acutely pointed out that ‘Tn art, they [the Chinese] 
aim at being exquisite, and in life at being reasonable.” 

. The result of this worship of common sense is therefore a 
di sli ke of all extravagances of theory in thought and all excesses 
of conduct in morals. The natural consequence of this is the 
Doctrine of the Golden Mean, which is really the same as the 
'^nothing too much” ideal of the Greeks. The Chinese word for 

1 See the ertreindy iUununating little book, Magic of Common Sense, by 

George Frederick Wates (John Murray, London). 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


105 

moderation is ckungho, meaning “not extreme and harmonious,” 
and the Chinese word for restraint is chieh, which means 
“control to proper degree.” In the Skuking {Book of History), 
supposed to contain the earhest Chinese political documents, 
the advice of Emperor Yao, on his abchcation, to Emperor 
Shun was “Hold the mean!” Mencius said of another ideal 
emperor, T’ang, that he “held the mean.” It is said that this 
emperor used to “listen to both extremes of coimsel and then 
apply the mean to the people,” which means that he would 
listen to two contradictory propositions, and give a fifty-per- 
cent discount of each. So important is the Doctrine of the 
Golden Mean to the Chinese that they have called their own 
country the “Middle Kingdom.” It is more than a geographical 
notion: it signifies a way of life which, by holding on to the 
mean, the normal and the essentially human, claims, as the 
old scholars did, that they have discovered all the essential 
truths of all schools of philosophy. 

The Doctrine of the Golden Mean covers all and envelops all. 
It dilutes all theories and destroys all religions. In an argument 
with a Buddhist priest who is probably able to spin out an 
absolute proof of the non-existence of matter and the futility 
of life, a Confucianist would simply say, in his matter-of-fact 
and illogical way, “What would become of the world, the state 
and the human race if everybody left his home and entered a 
monastery like you?” That illogical but supremely sensible 
appeal to life has a clinching force of its own. Not only against 
Buddhism, but against all religions and all theories, the test of 
life holds. We cannot aSbrd to be logical. In fact, all theories 
have become theories only by certain ideas developing into a 
psychosis in the minds of their founders. The Freudian complex 
is Freud himself, and the Buddhist complex is Buddha. All 
such theories, whether of Freud or of Buddha, seem to be 
based on an exaggerated illusion. The sufferings of mankind, 
the troubles of married Hfe, the sight of a sore-ridden beggar or 
the pains and groanings of a sick man, which to us common 
men are no sooner felt than healthily forgotten, must have 
struck Buddha’s hyper-sensitive nerves with a force which gave 
him the vision of a Nirvana, Confucianism, on the other hand, 
is the religion of the common man, who cannot afford to be 



I06 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

hyper-sensitive or the world will go to pieces. 

The working out of the Doctrine of the Golden Mean may be 
illustrated in all spheres of life and knowledge. Logically no 
man should get married, but practically all men should, so 
Confucianism advises marriage. Logically all men should be 
equal, but practically all men aren’t, so Confucianism teaches 
authority and obedience. Logically men and women should 
not be different, but practically they are, so Confucianism 
teaches the differentiation of the sexes. One philosopher, 
Motse, taught the love of all men, and another, Yang Chu, 
taught the love of oneself, and Mencius condemned them both, 
merely saying: ‘Tove your own parents.” It was such a 
sensible thing to say. One philosopher believes in repression 
of the passions, and another believes in naturalistic abandon, 
but Tzussu counselled moderation in all things. 

Take the question of sexual passion in particular. There are 
two opposite views of sexual ethics, one represented by Budd- 
hism and Calvinism, which regard sex as the culmination of 
sin, the natural consequence of which is asceticism. The other 
extreme is naturalism which glorifies virility, of which many 
a modem man is a secret follower. The conflict between these 
points of view gives the modern man his so-called restlessness 
of spirit. The man who tries to take a sane and healthy view 
of sex as a normal human passion, like Havelock Ellis, in- 
evitably veers toward the Greek view, which is the humanist 
view. The Confucian position with regard to sex is that it is 
a perfectly normal function, and more than that, it is connected 
with the perpetuation of the family and the race. The sanest 
view of sex I have encountered is that in Tehsao Paoyen^ an out- 
and-out Confucianist novel, which takes special delight in 
exposing the libertinism of the monks, and whose hero, a 
Confucian superman, goes about persuading his bachelor 
bandits and bandit girls to marry and bear children for the 
glory of their ancestors. Unlike ChinpHnmei^ which is devoted 
to libertinism, the men and women in Tehsao Paoyen are decent 
people, who make ideal husbands and wives. The only reason 
why this novel is considered obscene is that the author makes 
its men and women go through extremely compromising 
situations. Yet the total eflfect is a convincing argument for 



IDEALS OF LIFE IO7 

marriage and the home, and a glorification of motherhood. 
This view of sex is but one manifestation of the entire Confucian 
theory about passions, as stated by Tzussu, Confucius’s grand- 
son, in Chung Tung {The Golden Mean)^ which emphasizes 
moderation with regard to all the seven passions. 

That such an attitude is a difficult thing is well demonstrated 
by what an Oriental calls the excesses of Western theories. It 
is all too easy for man to be enslaved by nationalism, fascism, 
socialism or communism, which are all consequences of the 
excesses of industrialism, and forget that the state exists for 
the individual and not the individual for the state. A com- 
munist state in which the human individual is regarded but 
as a member of a class or a state organism would at once lose 
its attractiveness by the Confucian appeal to the true end of 
human life. Against all systems as such, the human individual 
asserts his right to exist and seek happiness. For more impor- 
tant than all the political rights is man’s right to happiness. A 
fascist China would have a hard time persuading the Chinese 
gentleman that the strength of the nation is more important 
than the welfare of the individual. Close observers of the 
communist state when it was set up in Kiangse offer as the 
greatest reason why Communism must fail in China, in spite of 
its great superiority over the feudalism of other parts, the fact 
that life was too systematized and too inhuman there. 

An equally undesirable effect of the Chinese spirit of reason- 
ableness and its consequent hatred of logical extremes has been 
that the Chinese, as a race, are unable to have any faith in a 
system. For a system, a machine, is always inhuman, and the 
Chinese hate anything inhuman. The hatred of any mechanis- 
tic view of the law and government is so great that it has made 
government by law impossible in China. A rigorous, harshly 
legalistic regime, or a really impersonal administration of the 
law, has always failed among us. It has failed because it was 
not liked by the people. The conception of a government by 
law was propounded and developed by thinkers in the third 
century b.g. It was tried by Shang Yang, a wonderfully 
efficient administrator, who helped to build the power of the 
Ch’in state, but eventually Shang Yang had to pay for his 
efficiency with his life. It had worked in Shang Yang’s country. 



I08 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Gh’in, a country with suspicious barbarian elements in Kansu, 
had enabled that country to develop a devilishly efficient war 
machine and conquer the whole of China, and had then died 
out miserably in two decades when the same type of regime 
was applied to the Chinese people en masse. The building of the 
Great Wall was so efficient but so inhuman that it cost Ch’in 
Shih Huang his empire. 

On the other hand, the Chinese humanists preached, and the 
Chinese people have always been under, a personal govern- 
ment, accorffing to which the deficiencies of a system, the 
principle of eking, can always be remedied by “expediency,” 
the principle of ch’ilan. Instead of a government by law, they 
have always accepted a government by “gentlemen,” which is 
more personal, more flexible and more human. An audacious 
idea this — ^it assumes that there are enough gentlemen to go 
round ruling the country! Just as audacious is the assumption 
of democracy that one can find out truth by a mechanical 
count of an odd jumble of opinions of common untbiulcing 
men. Both systems are admittedly imperfect, but the personal 
system seems always to have better suited the Chinese humanist 
temper, Chinese mdividuaUsm and the Chinese love of freedom. 

This trait, the lack of system, characterizes all our social 
organizations, our civil service, our colleges, our clubs, our 
railways, our steamship companies — everytl^g except the 
foreign-controlled Post Office and Maritime Customs — an'd the 
failure invariably goes back to the intrusion of the personal 
element, like nepotism and favouritism. For only an inbnman 
‘mind, ‘an unemotional iron face” can brush aside personal 
considerations and maintain a rigid system, and such “iron 
faces” are not in too great public favour in China, for they are 
aU bad Confucianists. Thus has been brought about the lack 
of social discipline, the most fatal of Chinese characteristics. 

The Chinese err, therefore, rather on the side of being too 
human. For to be reasonable is synonymous with making 
allowance for human nature. In E nglish, to say to a man, “Do 
be reasonable,” is the same as making an appeal to human 
nature as such. When Doolittle, the father of the flower-girl 
in Pygmalion, wants to touch Professor Higgins for a five-pound 
note, his appeal is, "Is this reasonable . . . ? The girl belongs 



IDEALSOFLIFE IO9 

to me. You got her. Where do I come in?’^ Doolittle further 
typifies the Chinese humanist spirit by asking for five pounds 
and refusing Professor Higgins’s ten pounds, for too much money 
would make him unhappy, and a true humanist wants money 
only to be happy and buy a little drink. In other words, Doo- 
little was a Gonfucianist and knew how to be happy and wanted 
only to be happy. Through this constant appe^ to reasonable- 
ness, the Chinese have developed a capacity for compromise, 
which is the perfectly natural consequence of the Doctrine of 
the Golden Mean. When an English father is unable to decide 
whether to send his son to Cambridge or Oxford, he may end 
up by sending him to Birmingham. So when the son, starting 
out from London and arriving at Bletchley, changes neither to 
the east for Cambridge, nor to the west for Oxford, but goes 
straight north to Birmingham, he is merely carrying out the 
Doctrine of the Golden Mean. That road to Birmingham has 
certain merits. By going straight north he succeeds in offending 
neither Cambridge nor Oxford. If one understands this 
application of the Doctrine of the Golden Mean, one can 
understand the whole game of Chinese politics in the last thirty 
years, and prophesy the outcome of any Chinese declaration 
of policy blindfold. One ceases to be frightened by its literary 
fireworks. 


IV. Taoism 

But has Gonfucian humanism been sufficient for the Chinese 
people? It has and it has not. If it had completely satisfied 
man’s instincts, there would have been no room for Taoism 
or Buddhism. The middle-class morality of Confucianism has 
worked wonderfully for the common people, both those who 
wear official buttons and those who kowtow to them. 

But there are people who do not wear or kowtow to the 
official buttons. Man has a deeper nature in him which Con- 
fucianism does not quite touch. Confucianism, in the strict 
sense of the word, is too decorous, too reasonable, too correct. 
Man has a hidden desire to go about with dishevelled hair, 
which Confucianism does not quite permit. The man who 



no MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

enjoys slightly rebellious hair and bare feet goes to Taoism. It 
has been pointed out that the Gonfucian outlook on life is 
positive, while the Taoistic outlook is negative. Taoism is the 
Great Negation, as Confucianism is the Great Affirmation, 
Confucianism, through its doctrine of propriety and social 
status, stands for human culture and restraint, while Taoism, 
with its emphasis on going back to nature, disbelieves in human 
restraint and culture. 

Of the two cardinal Gonfucian virtues, benevolence and 
righteousness, Laotse contemptuously said: “No character, 
then benevolence; no benevolence, then righteousness.’’ 
Confucianism is essentially an urban philosophy, while Taoism 
is essentially rural. A modem Gonfucianist would take city- 
licensed pasteurized Grade A milk, while a Taoist would take 
fresh mdlk from the milkman’s pail in the country fashion. For 
Laotse would have been sceptical of the city licence and 
pasteurization and the so-called Grade A, which smells not of 
the natural cream flavour, but of the city councillors’ ledgers 
and bankbooks. And who, after tasting the peasant’s milk, 
can doubt that Laotse was perhaps right? For while your 
health officers can protect your milk from typhoid germs, they 
cannot protect it from the rats of civilization. 

There are other deficiencies in Confucianism also. It has 
too much realism and too little room for fancy and imagination. 
And the Chinese are childishly imaginative. Something of that 
youthful wonder which we call magic and superstition remains 
in the Chinese breast. Confucianism provides for the existence 
of spirits, but takes care to keep them at a distance. It recog- 
nizes the spirits of the mountains and the rivers, and even 
symbolically those of human ancestors, but it has no heaven 
and hell, no hierarchy of gods and no cosmogony, and its 
rationalism shows little interest in magic and the pill of im- 
mortality. Even the realistic Chinese, apart from their ration- 
alistic scholars, always have a secret desire for immortality. 
Confucianism has no fairies, while Taoism has. In short, 
Taoism stands for the childish world of wonder and mystery 
for which Confucianism fails to provide. 

Taoism, therefore, accounts for a side of the Chinese charac- 
ter which Confucianism cannot satisfy. There is a natural 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


III 


romanticism and a natural classicism in a nation, as in an 
individual. Taoism is the romantic school of Chinese thought, 
as Confucianism is the classic school. Actually, Taoism is 
romantic throughout. Firstly, it stands for the return to nature 
2ind the romantic escape from the world, and revolts against 
the artificiality and responsibilities of Confucian culture. 
Secondly, it stands for the rural ideal of life, art and literature, 
and the worship of primitive simplicity. And thirdly, it stands 
for the world of fancy and wonder, coupled with a childishly 
naive cosmogony. 

The Chinese have been adjudged a matter-of-fact people. 
Yet there is a romantic side to their character which is even 
deeper, and which shows itself in their intense individuality, in 
their love of freedom and their happy-go-lucky view of life, 
which so often completely mystifies the foreign observers. For 
myself, I think the Chinese people are immeasurably greater 
for it. In every Chinese there is a hidden vagabond, with his 
love of vagabondage. Life under the Confucian code of 
decorum would be unbearable without this emotional relief. 
For Taoism is the playing mood of the Chinese people, as 
Confucianism is their working mood. That accounts for 
the fact that every Chinese is a Confiicianist when he is 
successful and a Taoist when he is a failure. The naturalism 
of Taoism is the balm that soothes the wounded Chinese 
soul. 

It is interesting to note how Taoism is more the creation of 
the Chinese people even than Confucianism and to see how the 
naturalistic philosophy of Laotse became allied, through the 
working of the folk-mind, with the Chinese interpretation of 
the world of spirits. Laotse himself had nothing to do with the 
pill of immortality or with Taoistic magic. His was a philo- 
sophy of laissezfaire in government and naturalism in ethics. 
For he believed in a “government which does nothing’’ as 
the ideal government. What man needed was to be let alone 
in his state of primitive freedom. Laotse regarded civilization as 
the beginning of man’s degeneration, and considered the sages 
of the Confucian type as the worst corrupters of the people, 
as Nietzsche regarded Socrates as the first corrupter of Europe. 
With his mordant wit, he said, “Sages no dead, robbers no 



II2 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

end/’^ His great follower Ghuangtse followed up with brilKant 
satires against Gonfucian hypocrisy and futility. 

It was all so easy. For Confucianism, with its emphasis on 
ceremonialism and anxiety over the distinctions of mourning 
periods and the thickness of coflBin panels, and with the intense 
desire of its followers to seek official positions and save the 
world, lent itself easily to caricature. The hatred of the Taoist 
against the Gonfucianist was the natural hatred of the roman- 
ticist against the classicist. Perhaps it was not hatred; it was 
merely an irresistible, mocking laughter. 

From this thorough-going scepticism it was but a step to 
romantic escape from the world and return to nature. Laotse 
left his post, according to legend, in his old age and disappeared 
outside the Hankukuan Pass. Ghuangtse was offered a high 
post by the King of Ch’u, but replied by asking whether it was 
wise to be kept and fed like a pig and then be slaughtered and 
offered up on the sacrificial altar. From that moment on 
Taoism has always been associated with the recluse, the 
retirement to the mountains, the worship of the rural life, the 
cultivation of the spirit and the prolongation of man’s life, and 
the banishment of all worldly cares and worries. And from this 
we derive the most characteristic charm of Ghinese culture, the 
rural ideal of life, art and literature. 

The question may be asked: How much was Laotse respon- 
sible for this recluse ideal? The Taotehking^ ascribed to him, is a 
lesser literary accomplishment than the books of Ghuangtse, 
the Ghinese Nietzsche, but it is a more concentrated essence 
of old-roguish wisdom. It is, to my mind, the most brilliantly 
wicked philosophy of self-protection in world literature. 
Besides teaching laissez faire and passive resistance, it taught 
also the wisdom of stupidity, the strength of weakness, the 
advantage of lying low, and the importance of camouflage. 
One of its maxims was, “Never be the first of the world,” for the 
simple reason that thus one could never be exposed to attack, 
and consequently never fall. It was, so far as I know, the only 
known theory of ignorance and stupidity as the best camouflage 

1 English readers -will kindly excuse my grammar* as it is fonnd impossible 
to convey the forceful terseness of the original except by recourse to pidgin. 
Any grammatical improvement 'will spoil it. 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


in lifers battle, in spite of the fact that the theory itself was the 
result of the highest human intelligence. 

Human intelligence in Laotse had seen its own dangers and 
began to preach ^‘Be stupid!” as its greatest message. It had 
seen tlie futility of human effort, and therefore advised the 
doctrine of ‘^doing nothing” as a saving of energy and a method 
of prolonging life. From this point on the positive oudook on 
life became negative, and its influence has coloured the whole 
Oriental culture. As may be seen in the novel Yehsao Paqyen 
and in all lives of great Chinese, the conversion of a bandit or 
a recluse into a man of the world with responsibilities toward 
one’s fellow-beings, was always represented by a Gonfucian 
argument, while the romantic escape from the world was 
always represented by the Taoistic or Buddhistic point of view. 
In Chinese, these two opposite attitudes are called “entering 
the world” and “leaving the world.” Sometimes these two 
points of view struggle for supremacy in the same man and at 
different periods in his life, as may be seen in the life of Yuan 
Chunglang. A living example is that of Professor Liang Suming, 
who was a Buddhist living in the mountains, but who was 
reconverted to Confucianism, married and is now conducting 
a rural middle school in Shantung. 

The rural ideal of life, art and literature, which is such an 
important feature of the Chinese civilization, owes a large 
measure to this Taoistic feeling for nature. In Chinese paint- 
ings on scrolls and porcelain there are two favourite themes, 
one being the happiness of family life with pictures of women 
and children in their leisure, the other being the happiness 
of the rural life, with pictures of a fisherman, or a woodcutter, 
or a recluse sitting on the ground under a group of pine-trees. 
These two themes may represent respectively the Gonfucianist 
and the Taoistic ideal of life. The woodcutter, the herb- 
gatherer, and the recluse are more closely associated with 
Taoism than the average foreigner woifld suspect. The 
Taoistic feeling is well expressed by this favourite poem: 

I asked the boy beneath the pines. 

He said, “The Master’s gone alone 
Herb-picking somewhere on the mount. 
Cloud-hidden, whereabouts unknown.” 



II4 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

This feeling for nature practically overflows in all Chinese 
poetry, and forms an important part of the Chinese spiritual 
heritage. Yet here, Confucianism plays an equally important 
part. The worship of primitive simplicity was consciously a 
part of the Confucian tradition. The agricultural basis of 
Chinese national life was pardy built on the family system, 
which identified itself with ownership of land in the country, 
and pardy on the Confucian dream of the Golden Age. Con- 
fucianism always harked back to the early period of the 
Emperors Yao and Shun, as the Golden Age when life was at 
its simplest and the needs of man were fewest. It was spoken 
of as a period when the people squatted on the earth and sang 
to the rhythm of sticks beaten on the ground, so happy and 
innocent that the burden of their song was: 

We go to work at sunrise. 

And come back to rest at sunset. 

We know nothing and learn nothing. 

What has the emperor’s virtue to do with us? 

The worship of the ancients then became identical with the 
worship of simplicity, for in Chinese the two notions are closely 
related, as in the word kup'Oy or “ancient and simple.” The 
Confucian ideal of the family has always been that the men 
pardy study and pardy till the ground, while the women spin 
and weave. As against the Taoistic poem quoted, and essentially 
supporting it in the praise of the simple life, we have, for 
instance, the poem which Ch’en Chiju, a scholar at the end of 
the sixteenth century, handed to his children as his family heritage: 

Life is complete 

With children at your feet; 

Just a handful of hay hides your cot. 

If land is sterile. 

To make it fertile, 

A young calf will surely help a lot. 

Teach thy sons to read, too, in spare hours, 

Not for fame nor for Mandarin collars. 

Brew your wine, plant bamboos, water flowers, 

Thus a house for generations of scholars. 



IDEALS OF LIFE II5 

The Chinese ideal of happiness was, then, not the “exercise 
of one’s powers along the lines of their excellence,” as was that 
of the Greeks, but the enjoyment of this simple rural life, 
together with the harmony of social relationships. 

The real force of Taoism, especially among the people, 
however, consists largely in supplying a world of unknowables, 
which Confucian good sense banished from its province of 
ideas. It is recorded in the Analects that Confucius seldom 
talked about the supernatural and the spirits. Confucianism 
offered no hell and no heaven, nor any formula for immortality 
of the soul. It solved the problems of human nature, but left 
out of consideration the riddle of the universe. It was at a loss 
to know even the workings of the human body. In this way, it 
left a large loophole in its philosophy, and allowed the popular 
mind to disentangle, with the help of Taoistic mysticism, the 
mysteries of nature. 

The workings of this mind were soon apparent in Huainantse 
(178-122 B.C.), who mixed philosophy with a wonderland of 
spirits and legeiids. Starting out with the dualistic notion of 
yin (female) and yang (male) principles, already current in 
the period of the Warring Kingdoms, Taoism soon added to 
its territory the fairies of the ancient Shantung barbarians, 
who dreamed of a fairyland out on the high seas, to which 
place the first emperor of Ch’in actually started out with five 
hundred boys and virgins to seek his immortality. The hold 
on the imagination then became irresistible, and from that 
time till the present Taoism has always maintained a firm 
foothold on the Chinese people, especially in the T’ang Dynasty, 
when it became for a long period the state religion, known as 
the Mystic Religion (because the T’ang imperial house had 
the same surname as Laotse, Li) . In the Wei and Ch’in Dynasties 
its vogue was so great as to completely overshadow Confucian- 
ism, and the fashion for Taoism became connected with the 
first romantic movement of Chinese literature and with the 
reaction against Confucian decorum, as it had been trans- 
formed by the late Han scholars. One of the famous poets 
compared the Confucian gentleman walking in his narrow 
path of righteousness to a bug creeping along the seams of a 
man’s trousers. Man’s nature had rebelled against Confucian 



Il6 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

restraint and its ceremonialism. 

In the meanwhile^ Taoism widened its sphere, and included 
under its arts medicine (or secret knowledge of the herbs), 
physiology and cosmogony (all more or less symbolically 
explained on the basis of Xhtyin zxidyang principles and the 
Five Elements), magic, witchcraft, aphrodisiacs, incantations, 
astrology, a good hierarchy of gods, some beautiful legends, a 
priesthood and a pope — all those paraphernalia that go to 
make up a good, solid popular religion. It took care, too, of 
Chinese athletics, by specializing in boxing, and the com- 
bination of boxing and witchcraft produced the Huangchin 
Rebellion at the end of the Han Dynasty. Last of all, it offered 
a formula for bodily hygiene, chiefly by deep-breathing, leading 
up to immortality by ascent to heaven on the back of a stork. 
Its most useful word was chH (air? breath? spirit?) which, being 
invisible, was most susceptible of “mystic” handling. The 
application of this cKi was practically universal, from the rays 
of a comet to boxing, deep-breathing and sexual union, which 
was sedulously practised as an art (with preference for virgins), 
in the cause of prolongation of life. Taoism was, in short, the 
Chinese attempt to discover the mysteries of nature. 


V. Buddhism 

Buddhism is the only important foreign influence that has 
become part and parcel of Chinese life. The influence is so 
deep that we now speak of children’s dolls, and sometimes 
the children themselves, as “little buddhisatvas” {hsiao p'tisa), 
and the Empress Dowager herself was addressed as “Old 
Buddha.” The Goddess of Mercy and the smiling Buddha 
have become Chinese household words. Buddhism has affected 
our language, our food, our arts, our sculpture and directly 
inspired the characteristic pagoda. It has stimulated our 
literature and our whole world of imagination. The little 
monkish figure, with his bald head and his grey robes, forms 
an intimate part of any panorama of society, and Buddhist 
temples, rather than those of Confucius, are the centre of the 
town and village life, where the elders gather to decide on 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


II7 

village matters and annual celebrations. Its monks and nuns 
penetrate the privacies of Chinese households, on all occasions 
of births, deaths and weddings, as no other persons are allowed 
to do, and hardly a widow or virgin can be seduced, according 
to the Chinese novels, without the help of these religious figures. 

Buddhism, in short, means to the Chinese people what 
religion means to people in other countries, namely, something 
that comes to the rescue when human reason falters or fails. 
In modem China Buddhist monks are more popular than 
Taoist monks and for every Taoist temple {kuari) there are ten 
Buddhist temples (miao) to be found. As late as 1933-4 the 
Panchen Lama of Thibet sprinkled holy water over tens of 
thousands of people in Peiping and Nanking, including high 
government personages like Tuan Ch’ijui and Tai Chit’ao, and 
was royally entertained by the Central and local govern- 
ments in Nanking, Shanghai, Hangchow and Canton. As 
late as May, 1934, Nola Kotuhutu, another Thibetan lama, 
as official guest of the Canton Government, publicly declared 
his ability to protect people against poison gas by incantations, 
and actually was able to influence a certain general to change 
the position of his guns at this fort through his superior know- 
ledge of astrology and necromancy. Their influence would 
not be so great if the Chinese could see a clear way to repel 
Japanese attacks by modem military science. The Chinese 
reason here falters, and therefore turns to religion. Since the 
Chinese army cannot help the Chinese, they are willing to be 
helped by Buddha. 

Buddhism has conquered China as a philosophy and as a 
religion, as a philosophy for the scholars and as a religion for 
the common people. Whereas Confucianism has only a philo- 
sophy of moral conduct, Buddhism possesses a logical method, 
a metaphysics, and a theory of knowledge. Besides, it is 
fortunate in having a high tradition of scholarship in the trans- 
lations of Buddhist classics, and the language of these trans- 
lations, so succinct and often so distinguished by a beautiful 
lucidity of language and reasoning, cannot but attract scholars 
with a philosophical bias. Hence Buddhism has always enjoyed 
a prestige among the Chinese scholars, which so far Christianity 
has failed to achieve. 



Il8 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Buddhist influence has been so great as to transform Con- 
fucianism itself. Confucian scholarship since the Chou Dynasty 
was confined to textual emendations and philologic com- 
mentaries. The fashion for the study of Buddhism, believed 
to be introduced to China in the first Christian century, rose 
steadily throughout the Northern Wei and Ch’in Dynasties, 
and produced a change of emphasis from textual commentaries 
to the inner philosophic meaning (jili). In the Sung Dynasty 
there arose directly under its influence a new Confucian 
school, or several schools, which called themselves lihsueh^ or 
“philosophy.’’ The preoccupation was still with moral 
problems, but terms like hsing (nature), li (reason), ming (pre- 
destination), hsin (mind), wu (matter), and chih (knowledge) 
were brought into the foreground. There was a reawakened 
interest in die Confucian Tiking {Book of Changes) , which studies 
the mutations of human events. These Sung Confucianists, 
one and all, especially the Gh’eng brothers, had delved deep 
into Buddhism and came back to Confucianism with a newly- 
won perspective. The realization of truth was spoken of, as 
by Lu Chiuyen, as an “awakening” in the Buddhistic sense, 
following a long meditation. Buddhism did not convert these 
scholars, but it changed the tenor of Confucianism itself. 

Equally great was its influence over writers like Su Tungp’o, 
who were in an armed camp against these scholars, but who 
played with Buddhism in their own light, dilettante way. Su 
Tungp’o styled himself a chiissu^ which means a Confucian 
scholar living in Buddhistic retirement without becoming a 
monk, a most pecuHarly Chinese invention which allowed a 
follower of Buddhism to live in married life and become a 
vegetarian for periods at leisure. One of Su’s best friends was 
a learned monk, Foyin, and the difference between these two 
friends was only a difference of degree of conversion. This was 
the time when Buddhism prospered under imperial protection, 
with a Government Bureau for the translation of Buddhist 
classics, and counting at one time almost half a million monks 
and nuns. Since Su Tungp’o’s time, and largely due to his 
great literary influence, many a scholar of high standing has 
played with Buddhism and become a chussu of Su’s type, if 
not actually entering a monastery as a monk. In times of 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


national disorder, as during the change of dynasties, a great 
number of scholars shaved their heads and took monastic orders, 
as much for personal protection as out of feehng for the helpless 
chaos of the world. 

There is justification enough in a chaotic country for the 
popularity of a religion which declares the vanity of the world 
and offers a refuge from the pains and vicissitudes of this 
earthly life. We have to-day an extant copy of the life of Lu 
Liching by his daughter. Lu Liching, at the end of the Ming 
Dynasty and the beginning of the Manchu Dynasty, disappeared 
from the world in his old age, and after long years of separa- 
tion from his wife and children, once entered the city of 
Hangchow to cure the sickness of his brother, but refused to 
see his own family living next door. What disillusionment a 
man must have perceived of the phenomena of this life to do 
such a thing! 

And yet it is not impossible to understand it after reading 
his daughter’s Life. The depth of disillusionment was equal 
only to the depth of his personal sufferings. Accused of having 
a hand in the publication of a work by another author, which 
was considered disrespectful to the new Manchu regime, this 
man, after bidding farewell to his ancestors in a sacrificial 
prayer, started out with his whole family to Peking, in chains 
and under guard, with the constant expectation that his wife 
and children and close relatives would be slaughtered whole- 
sale. He had said in his prayer that if he came back alive he 
would become a monk, and he did. In this sense Buddhism 
was an unconscious gesture of man in his battle with life, a 
form of revenge somewhat similar in psychology to suicide, 
when life proved too cruelly superior. Many beautiful and 
talented girls at the end of the Ming Dynasty took the monastic 
vow through disappointment in love caused by those catas- 
trophic changes, and the first emperor of the Manchu Dynasty 
became a monk for the same reason. 

But apart from this negative protest against life, there is an 
aspect of Buddhism which has an evangelical influence on the 
common people, and works for general kindness. The most 
vivid and direct influence it exercises over the people is through 
its doctrine of transmigration. Buddhism has not taught the 



120 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Chinese to befriend the animals, but it has largely restrained 
the consumption of beef. The Chinese Doctrine of the Golden 
Mean has encouraged the people in the consumption of pork as 
an inevitable evil and on the plea that the pig is a less useful 
animal than the cow except as food. But it has driven home 
to the Chinese consciousness the idea that butchery is inlmm^^n 
and displeasing to the gods. During the flood in 1933 the 
Hankow local government forbade butchery for three days as 
an atonement toward the river god, and this practice is 
practically universal whenever there is a drought or famine. 
Vegetarianism can hardly be defended on biologic grounds, 
since man is born with natural carnivorous, as well as herbiv- 
orous, teeth, but it can be defended on humane grounds. 
Mencius was conscious of this cruelty, but being unwilling to 
forgo meat entirely, he fought his way out by giving the 
formula that “a gentleman kept away from the kitchen.” The 
fact that one does not see what happens in the kitchen eases 
the Confiician conscience. This solution of the dietetic difficulty 
was typical of the Doctrine of the Golden Mean. Many a 
Chinese grandmother, wishing to please Buddha and not 
willing to forgo meat entirely, would apply the Doctrine of 
the Golden Mean in a different fashion by turning vegetarian 
for a deflnite period from a single day to three years. 

But, on the whole. Buddhism forces the Chinese people to 
admit butchery as an inhuman act. This is but one conse- 
quence of the doctrine of transmigration, which works for 
general humaneness toward animals and one’s fellow-beings. 
For the consequent doctrine of retribution and the possiHe 
soul survival in the form of a sore-ridden beggar or a flea- 
ridden dog may be a more effective object-lesson for good be- 
haviour than a heU of pointed knives learned by hearsay. 
Actually, the true Buddhist follower is a kinder person, more 
pacific, more patient, and more philanthropic, than others. His 
ph il a n t hr opy may not be ethically worth much, since every cent 
^ven and every cup of tea offered to the passing stranger is an 
investment in personal future happiness, and therefore 
essentially selfish, but what religion does not use the same bait? 
William James has wisely said that religion is the most colossal 
chapter in the history of human selfishness. Man, outside the 



IDEALS OF LIFE 


I2I 


sincere humanist, seems to need this selfish bait. Nevertheless, 
Buddhism has given rise to the great institution of well-to-do 
families providing big earthen jars of cold tea for passing 
wayfarers on hot summer days. It is, in common phraseology, 
a good thing, irrespective of motive. 

Many Chinese novels, like the tales of Boccaccio, have 
accused the monks and nuns of immorality. This is based on 
the universal human delight taken in exposing all forms of 
hypocrisy. It is natural and easy therefore to make Casanovas 
of Chinese monks, provided with witchcraft and secret 
aphrodisiacs. There are actually cases, in certain parts of 
Chekiang, for example, where a nunnery is but a house of 
prostitution. But on the whole, the charge is unfair, and most 
monks are good, retiring, polite and well-behaved people, and 
any Don Juan exploits are limited to transgressing individuals, 
and are grossly exaggerated in novels for effect. From my 
personal observation, most monks are underfed, anaemic and 
incapable of such exploits. Besides, this misjudgment is due 
to the failure to see the connection between sex and religion in 
China. The monks have a greater chance to see beautifully 
dressed women than any other class of people in China. The 
practice of their religion, whether in private homes or in their 
temples, brings them in daily contact with women who are 
otherwise shut away from the public. Thanks to the Gon- 
fucian seclusion of women, the only unimpeachable pretext 
for women to appear in public is to go to the temples and 
*‘bum incense.” On the first and fifteenth of every month, and 
on every festive occasion, the Buddhist temple is the rendezvous 
of all the local beauties, married or otherwise, dressed in their 
‘^Sunday best.” If any monk eats pork on the sly, he may also 
be expected to indulge in occasional irregularities. Add to 
this the fact that many monasteries are exceptionally well 
endowed, and many monks have plenty of money to spend, 
which is the cause of mischief in many cases that have come to 
light in recent years. In 1934 a nun actually had the audacity 
to sue a monk for infidelity in a Shanghai court. Anything 
may happen in China. 

I give here a refined example of the literary handling of the 
sexual problems of the monks. The poem is called a “Young 



122 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Nun’s Worldly Desires,” which is a favourite topic and has 
many versions. It is taken from a popular Chinese drama, 
The White Fur-Coat^ and in Chinese is incidentally first-class 
poetry, in the form of the young nun’s soliloquy. 

A young nun am I, sixteen years of age; 

My head is shaven in my young maidenhood. 

For my father, he loves the Buddhist sutras, 

And my mother, she loves the Buddhist priests. 

Morning and night, morning and night, 

I burn incense and I pray. For I 
Was born a sickly child, fiiU of ills. 

So they decided to send me here 
Into this monastery. 

Amitabha! Amitabhal 
Unceasingly I pray. 

Oh, tired am I of the humming of the drums and the 
tinkling of the bells; 

Tired am I of the droning of the prayers and the crooning 
of the priors; 

The chatter and the clatter of unintelligible charms. 

The clamour and the clangour of interminable chants, 

The mumbling and the murmuring of monotonous psalms. 
Panjnaparamita, Mayura-sutra, 

Saddharamapundarika — 

Oh, how I hate them all! 

While I say mitabha, 

I sigh for my beau. 

While I cheint saparah, 

My heart cries, ‘‘Ohl” 

While I sing tarata, 

My heart palpitates sol 

Ah, let me take a little stroll, 

Let me take a little stroU^ 



IDEALS OF LIFE I23 

{She comes to the Hall of the Five Hundred Lohan^ which are 
known for their distinctive facial expressions.) 

Ah, here are the Lohan, 

What a bunch of silly, amorous souls! 

Every one a bearded man! 

How each his eyes at me rolls! 

Look at the one hugging his knees! 

His lips are mumbhng my name so! 

And the one with his cheek in his hand. 

As though thinking of me so! 

That one has a pair of dreamy eyes, 

Dreaming dreams of me so! 

But the Lohan in sackcloth! 

What is he after. 

With his hellish, heathenish laughter? 

With his roaring, rollicking laughter. 

Laughing at me so! 

^Laughing at me, for 

When beauty is past and youth is lost. 

Who will marry an old crone? 

When beauty is faded and youth is jaded, 

Who will marry an old, shrivelled cocoon? 

The one holding a dragon, 

He is cynical; 

The one riding a tiger, 

He looks quizzical; 

And that long-browed handsome giant. 

He seems pitiful. 

For what will become of me when my beauty is gone? 

These candles of the altar. 

They are not for my bridal chamber. 

These long incense-containers. 

They are not for my bridal parlour. 

And the straw prayer cushions. 

They cannot serve as quilt or cover* 

Oh, God! 



124 my country and my people 

Whence conies this burning, suffocating ardour? 

Whence comes this strange, infernal, unearthly ardour? 
I’ll tear these monkish robes! 

I’ll bury all the Buddhist sutras; 

I’ll drown the wooden fish, 

And leave all the monastic putras! 

rU leave the drums. 

I’ll leave the bells, 

And the chants. 

And the yells. 

And all the interminable, exasperating, religious chatter! 

I’ll go downhill, and find me a young and handsome lover — 

Let him scold me, beat me! 

Kick or ill-treat me! 

I will not become a buddha! 

I will not mumble mita, panjra, para! 

This brings us to the topic of the actual service of the 
Buddhistic religion as an emotional oudet for the Chinese 
people. First, it makes the seclusion of women not so complete 
and more endurable. The desire of women to go to the temple, 
as against the lesser desire of men to do the same, is as much 
due to their emotional need for going outdoors as to the usual 
greater “^religiosity” of women. The first and fifteenth days 
of a month and the festive occasions are days actually an- 
ticipated for weeks ahead by women in their secluded chambers. 

Secondly, its spring pilgrimages provide legitimate outlet 
for the very much atrophied Chinese Wanderlust, These 
pilgrimages come in early spring, and coincide with Easter. 
Those who cannot go far away at least may go to weep on the 
relatives’ graves on cHingming day, which has the same emotional 
basis. Those who can, put on sandals or go in sedan chairs to 
the famous temples. Some people in Amoy still persist in 
sailing about five hundred miles on old sailing junks to the 
Pootoo Islands off the coast of Ningpo every spring. In the 
North, the annual pilgrimage to Miaofengshan is still a pre- 
vailing custom. Thousands of pilgrims, old and young, men 
and women, may be seen on the trail carrying sticks and yellow 
bags, travelling nights and days to the sacred temple. Among 



IDEALS OF LIFE I25 

them the spirit of jollity prevails as it did in Chaucer’s times, 
and tales are told on the way like those Chaucer recorded. 

Hence, thirdly, it provides the Chinese with a chance to 
enjoy mountain scenery, for most Buddhist temples are situated 
on high mountains at scenic spots. It is the one little pleasure 
the Chinese allow themselves in their usual humdrum every- 
day life. They arrive and put up in what seem to be superior 
hotel rooms, and drink tea and gossip with the monks. The 
monks are polite conversationalists, they offer good vegetarian 
dinners and reap an enormous sum in their coffers. The 
pilgrims then go home with freshened spirits and renewed 
energy for their exacting daily routine. Who can deny that 
Buddhism has an important place in the scheme of Chinese 
life? 




PART TWO 
LIFE 




PROLOGUE TO PART TWO 


WE have now surveyed the mental and moral constitution of 
the Chinese people, and the ideals of life which influence the 
fundamental pattern of Chinese life. It remains to make a 
study of Chinese life itself in its sexual, social, political, literary 
and artistic aspects. Stated briefly, these wfll cover Chinese 
women, society, governments, literature and art, together 
with a special chapter devoted to the art of living as the 
Chinese have conceived and practised it. These arrange 
themselves again into two groups. The fbrst three are necessarily 
connected, for an understanding of the life of women and the 
home will lead to a consideration of the Chinese social life, 
and only from a true understanding of the Chinese social life 
wfll it be possible to understand the administration of justice 
and government in China. The study of these visible aspects 
of Chinese life will naturally lead to an inquiry into the subtler 
cind less known problems of Chinese culture, especially in the 
field of art, with an outlook and a history of development 
peculiar to the Chinese people and totally different from the 
West. The Chinese culture is one of the truly indigenous 
cultures of the world, and as such will be found to offer many 
interesting points of comparison with Western culture. 

For culture is a product of leisure, and the Chinese have had 
the immense leisure of three thousand years to develop it. In 
these three thousand years they have had plenty of time to 
drink tea and look at life quietly over their teacups, and from 
the gossip over the teacups they have boiled life down to its 
essence. They have had plenty of time, too, to discuss their 
forefathers, to ponder over their achievements and to review 
the successive changes of the modes of art and of life, and to 
see their own in the light of the long past. And from this 
gossiping and pondering history came to have a great meaning: 
it came to be spoken of as the “mirror” which reflects human 
experience for the benefit of the present and which is like a 

129 



130 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

gathering stream, uninterrupted, continuous. The writing of 
history then became the most serious form of literature and the 
writing of poetry became its highest and most refined emotional 
outlet. 

Sometimes, when the “wine was firagrant and the tea well- 
brewed,” amidst the singing of the kettle and the gurgling of 
the spring, a happy thought came to the Chinese, and at 
intervals of about five hundred years, or under the forces of 
changed circumstances, their minds became creative and a 
new discovery was made either in the metre of poetry or in the 
improvement of porcelain, or in the art of grafting pear-trees, 
and the nation moved on. They gave up speculation about 
immortality as something for ever unknowable but for ever to 
be conjectured and gossiped about, half seriously and half 
playfully. Equally they gave up the mysteries of nature, 
thunderstorms and lightning and hail and snow, and the 
mysteries of their own bodily functions, such as the connection 
between saliva! flow and hunger. They did not use the test- 
tube or the scalpel. So sometimes it seemed to them as if the 
whole sphere of the knowable had been exhausted by their 
ancient forefathers, and the last word on human philosophy 
said, and the last rhythm in calligraphy discovered. 

So they fell more seriously to the business of living than to 
the business of making progress. They took infinite pains and 
spent sleepness nights over the planning of their private gardens 
or the cooking of sharks’ fins, and fell to eating with the 
seriousness and gusto of an Omar Khayydm, who trailed the 
dust of philosophy in vain and took again the vine for his 
spouse. In this, they crossed the threshold of all the arts, and 
entered the hall of the art of life itself, and art and fife became 
one. They achieved that crown of Chinese culture, the art 
of living, which is the end of all human wisdom. 



Chapter Five 

WOMAN’S LIFE 


I. The SuBjEcsnoN of Women 

SOMETHING in the Chinese blood never quite gave woman 
her due from primeval times. The fundamental dualistic out- 
look, with the differentiation of thtyang (male) and the 
(female) principles, went back to the Book of Changes^ which 
was later formulated by Confucius. The respect for women, 
a certain tenderness toward the female sex, which was charac- 
teiistic of the Teutonic races already in their barbaric days, 
was absent in the early pages of Chinese History. As early as 
the time of the folk-songs, collected in the Book of Poems, there 
was a sexual inequality, for “when a baby boy was bom he 
was laid on the bed and given jade to play with, and when a 
baby girl was bom she was laid, on the floor and given a tile 
to play with.” (This song must have been centuries older than 
Confucius.) But woman was not subjected until she was 
civilized. The progressive subjection of women followed pace 
by pace the increasing development of Confucianism. 

The original social system was a matriarchal system, and this 
is important, for something of this spirit still survives in Chinese 
womanhood to the present day. TTie Chinese woman is, on 
the whole, a constitutionally soimder animal than her male 
companion, and we still have plenty of matriarchs even in the 
Confucian households. Traces of this matriarchy were still 
clearly visible in the Chou Dynasty, when the family name, 
or hsing, was the woman’s name, and man had only a personal 
name, or skih, after his place of birth or his official position. 
Throughout the folk-songs of the Book of Poems we fail to see 
any traces of the seclusion of women. Something of the freedom 
in the choice of mates, like what stiU prevails among the 
southern aborigines of Kwangsi, must have prevailed in the 



132 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

ancient times. It was raw and it was free. One folk-song from 
the Book of Poem runs thus: 

If thou thinkest of me, 

I will lift my petticoat 
And cross die river Ts^enA 
If thou thinkest not of me, 

Why, are there not other men? 

— Oh, thou silly boy! 

If thou thinkest of me, 

I will lift my petticoat 
And cross the River Wo. 

If thou thinkest not of me, 

Why, are there not other beaux? 

— Oh, thou silly boy! 

The Book of Poems also has many examples of songs of women 
who ran away with their lovers. The marriage system had 
not yet become the severe bondage of women that it was in 
later days. The sexual relations of men in the times of Con- 
fucius, especially those prevailing in the upper classes, had 
something analogous to those in the days of decadent Rome, 
with numerous cases of incest with stepmothers, with daughters- 
in-law, with sisters-in-law, the presentation of one’s wife to a 
neighbouring ruler, the marrying of a son’s wife for one’s own 
benefit, illicit relations between the queen and the prime 
minister, etc., with which the Chochuan abounds. Woman, who 
is always powerful in China, was powerful then. The Queen of 
Wei made the King summon the handsomest man in the country 
to her boudoir. Divorce was still easy and divorcees could 
remarry. The cult of feminine chastity had not yet become an 
obsession with men. 

Then came Confucianism with its seclusion of women. The 
separation of men and women was soon pushed by the Con- 
fucianists to such extremes that married sisters could not eat 
at the same table with their brothers, according to the Book of 

1 The speHings of these river names have been slightly altered to suit the 
rhyme. 



woman’s life 


133 

Rites, To what extent such ceremonial ‘^rites’’ in the books 
were observed in practice it is impossible to ascertain. It is 
easy to understand this seclusion from the viewpoint of the 
whole Confucian social philosophy. It stood for a society with 
emphasis on distinction between superiority and inferiority. 
It stood for obedience, for recognition of authority in a family 
as in a state, and for the division of labour between man’s 
duties outside and women’s duties in the home. It encouraged 
the womanly woman, and naturally taught such fe m inine 
virtues as quietness, obedience, good manners, personal neat- 
ness, industry, ability in cooking and spinning, respect for the 
husband’s parents, kindness to the husband’s brothers, courtesy 
to the husband’s friends, and all those virtues desirable from 
the male point of view. Nothing was radically wrong in these 
moral instructions, and with their economic dependence and 
their love of conventions, women accepted them. Perhaps the 
women desired to be good, or perhaps they desired to please 
the men. 

Confucianism saw that this sexual differentiation was 
necessary for social harmony, and perhaps Confucianism was 
quite near the truth. Then Confucianism also gave the wife 
an *‘equal” position with the husband, somewhat below the 
husband, but still an equal helpmate, like the two fish in the 
Taoist symbol of yin and yang^ necessarily complementing 
each other. It also gave the mother an honoured position in 
the home. In the best spirit of Confucianism, this differen- 
tiation was interpreted, not as a subjection but as a harmony 
of relationships. Women who could rule their husbands 
knew that dependence on this sexual arrangement was their 
best and most efiective weapon for power, and women who 
could not were too dull to raise feminist problems. 

This was the Confucian attitude toward women and women’s 
position in society before it came under the influence of the 
later men scholars. It had not yet developed that curiously and 
perversely selfish aspect characteristic of the later attitudes, 
but the basic notions of woman’s inferiority were there. One 
flagrant instance was the rule that while the husband’s mourn- 
ing period for the wife was only one year, the wife’s mourning 
period for the husband was three years, and while the normal 



134 my country and my people 

mourning period for one’s parents was three years, that of the 
wife for her own father was only one year, if the husband’s 
father was stiU living. Typically feminine virtues, like obed- 
ience and loyalty, were codified by Liu Hsiang in the Han 
Dynasty, into something like a feminine ethics, quite distinct 
from that for the men, and Pan Ch’ao, the woman author of 
Women’s Guide, was the great exponent of the “three obediences 
and four virtues” of women. The three obediences were: 
when a woman is in her maiden home she obeys her father; 
when married she obeys her husband; and when her husband 
dies she obeys her son.” The last was of course never carried 
out, owing to the superior position of the mother in the Con- 
fucian scheme. In this Dynasty women who died for their 
chastity were already officially honoured with stone pailou 
or wdth ofiicial titles from the court. But women could still 
marry a second time. . 

In tracing the development of the theory of chaste widow- 
hood, it would be dangerous to lend too much weight to 
academic theory, for the Chinese are always a realistic people 
and have a way of withering theories with a laugh. Practice 
must have lagged behind dieory, and even as late as the 
Manchu times chaste widowhood was expected of the wife of a 
scholar with official titles but not of the common women. 
Even in the T’ang Dynasty the daughter of the great scholar 
Han Yu married a second time. Of the T’ang princesses, 
twenty-three married a second time and four of them married 
a third time. But the tradition started in the Han Dynasty 
centuries before was there at work, reinforcing the early tradi- 
tion that men could remarry but women could not. 

After this came the Sung scholars, who imposed a secluded 
life on women and made the remarrying of widows a moral 
crime. Worship of chastity, which they so highly prized in 
women, became something of a psychological obsession and 
women were henceforth to be responsible for social morals, 
from which the men were exempt. More than that, women 
were to be responsible for courage and strength of character 
also, which curiously the men so admired in the gentle sex, 
for the emphasis had shifted from women’s ordinary routine 
domestic virtues to female heroism and self-sacrifice. Alread'y 



woman’s life 


135 

in the ninth century a widow was greatly praised by the 
Gonfiician males for cutting off her arm because a hotel-keeper 
had dragged her by it, when she was refused entrance on her 
way home accompanying her husband’s coffin. In the Mongol 
Dynasty another widow was greatly honoured for refusing to 
show her ulcered breast to the doctor and heroically dying of 
it.^ 

In the Ming Dynasty this doctrine of chaste widowhood 
became an ofl&cial institution. Women who kept their widow- 
hood from any age imder thirty to the age of fifty were ofiicially 
honoured with pailou^ and their families were exempt from 
official labour service. It became then not only highly moral 
to admire purity of character in women, but also highly con- 
venient for the male relatives to do so. Chaste widowhood 
became not only popular with the men and the widows’ 
relatives, but also became one of the easiest ways for women to 
distinguish themselves. They lent honour, not only to their 
own families but to their whole village or clan. In this sense 
it had truly become a popular obsession, with just a few 
occasional protests from independent minds. It was this 
doctrine of chaste widowhood that caused Confucianism to be 
denounced during the “Renaissance” of 1917 as a “man- 
eating religion.” 

Along with the development of Confiician theory a stream of 
real life was going on, based on social conventions, and stiU 
more on economic pressure. More important than the in- 
fluence of Confucianism was the fact that men controlled the 
purse. For while Confucianism had erected chaste widowhood 
into a religion, jewels and pearl necklaces, which had nothing 
to do with Confucianism, turned women into concubines and 
cocottes. The accumulation of wealth and the rise of great 
houses during the Wei and Ch’in Dynasties, coupled with the 
general political disorder, encouraged concubinage on the 
one hand and forced the drowning of baby girls on the other, 
owing to the fact that poor parents could not provide for the 

1 Most of these stories can be found in the official histories of the different 
dynasties, where special sections are devoted to lives of great women, along 
with those of men. A woman who distinguished herself by committing suicide 
to guard her chastity had a fair chance of leaving her name in literature in one 
form or another. 



136 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

expensive wedding ceremonies of their daughters. In these 
times many rulers and rich families had dancing girls in their 
private households by the tens and hundreds, and the life of 
licentious luxury and female entertainment was something that 
would have satisfied a roue’s dreams. Women, in short, had 
become the playthings of men. Shih Ts’ung, who had dozens 
of concubines, used to make them tread on a bed spread with 
rare incense powder and those who were light enough to leave 
no footprint on it would be rewarded with strings of pearl 
necklaces, while those who did would be ‘‘put on the diet” 
and instructed to reduce. Those pearl necklaces, rather than 
Confucianism, were the cause of women’s downfall in China 
as in ancient Rome or modern New York. The situation was 
therefore ripe for the institution of footbinding, which was the 
last sophistication of male fancy. 

Paradoxically, it was in this period that Chinese women were 
known throughout for their jealousy, and henpecked officials 
often appeared at court with bruised faces, resulting in punish- 
ment of their jealous wives by royal decree. A certain Liu 
Poyxi used to recite the Ode to the Goddess of River Lo^ and 
once remarked with a sigh in his wife’s hearing, “What a beauty 
for a wife!” His wife said, “Why do you praise the Goddess of 
River Lo and insult me? When I die, I will become a water 
spirit.” That night she drowned herself in the river. Seven 
days afterwards the wife appeared before Poyii in a dream and 
said, “You wanted to marry a goddess, now I am a goddess.” 
For the rest of his life Liu Poyti never dared cross a stream. 
Whenever women passed the river at this ferry, called the 
“Ferry of the Jealous Woman” (in Shantung), they had to hide 
or crumple their beautiful dresses and disfigure themselves, 
otherwise a storm would come up. But if the women were ugly 
the goddess was not jealous. And women who passed the ferry 
without raising a storm thought they must be ugly themselves. 

It is easy to see how women’s jealousy grew with the system 
of concubinage. It was their only weapon of defence. A 
jealous wife could, by the sheer force of this instinct, prevent 
her husband firom having concubines, modern instances of 
which can still be found. If man had sense enough to see that 
marriage is woman’s best and only profession he would be able 



woman’ s life 


137 

to excuse in her such professional ethics, whether with con- 
cubines or not. Our scholar, Yu Ghenghsieh, discovered as 
early as 1833 that ‘‘jealousy is no vice in women.” Women who 
lose their husbands’ favour have about the same feeling as a 
professional clerk who loses the good favour of his employer, 
and unmarried girls have about the same feeling as a man out 
of employment. Man’s professional jealousy in commercial 
competition is just as merciless as woman’s in the field of love, 
and a small trader has just as much liking for being put out of 
business as a shopkeeper’s wife has in seeing her husband take 
to another woman. Such is the logic of the economic depend- 
ence of women. The failure to see this is responsible for the 
jokes about gold-diggers, for gold-diggers are merely the female 
counterpart of successful business men: they are more clear- 
minded than their sisters, sell their goods to the highest bidders 
in a professional spirit, and get what they want. Successful 
business men and gold-diggers want the same thing, money, 
and they ought to respect each other for his or her clear- 
mindedness. 


II. Home and Marriage 

Anything is possible in China, however. I have been carried 
in a sedan chair by women up the mountains in the outskirts 
of Soochow. The women sedan-bearers insisted on carrying 
me, a man, up those hills. Somewhat shamefacedly, I let them, 
for, I thought, these are the descendants of the ancient Chinese 
matriarchs, and sisters of the women in southern Fukien, with 
glorious breasts and an erect bearing, who carry coal and till 
the field, who rise early in the morning, dress and wash and do 
their hair neatly and go to work and come back to nurse their 
children with their own milk. They are the sisters, too, of those 
women in rich families who rule the household and their hus- 
bands as well. 

Have women really been suppressed in China, I often 
wonder? The powerful figure of the Empress Dowager 
immediately comes to my mind. Chinese women are not the 
type to be easily suppressed. Women have suffered many 



138 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPL] 

disadvantages, have been prevented from holding stenographic 
positions or judicial posts, but women have ruled nevertheless 
in the home, apart from those debauchee households where 
women have become toys. Even in these homes some of the 
concubines manage to rule their lords. And what is still more 
important, women have been deprived of every right, but they 
have never been deprived of the right to marry. To every girl 
born in China a home of her own is provided. Society insists 
that even slave-girls should be married off at proper age. Mar- 
riage is women’s only inalienable right in China, and with the 
enjoyment of that right they have the best weapon for power, 
as wife and as mother. 

There are two sides to this picture. Man has undoubtedly 
been unfair to woman, yet it is interesting to see how sometimes 
woman has her revenge. The total effect of the subjection of 
women consists in the general recognition of the inferiority 
of women, in women’s self-abasement, in their deprivation of 
the social advantages of the men, in their lesser education and 
knowledge, in their cheaper, harder and less free lives, and in 
the double sex standard. The oppression of women is more the 
invisible sort, resulting from the general recognition of their 
inferiority. Where there is no love between husband and wife 
the husband may be very autocratic, and in such cases the wife 
has no other recourse but submission. The women merely 
endure family autocracy as the Chinese people endure political 
autocracy. But no one dare say there are more autocratic 
husbands or less happy marriages in China, for reasons 
we shall soon see. The women are expected not to be garnilous, 
not to gad about from family to family, and not to look at men 
in the streets. But many of them are extremely garrulous, many 
of them gad about from family to family, and many of them 
look at men in the streets. They are expected to be virtuous, 
while men are not, but this is not such a great hardship, since 
most women are naturally chaste. They are deprived of the 
consideration and social advantages which Western women 
enjoy, but once they get used to it, they don’t care about going 
to mixed parties, for they have their social occasions and home 
parties as well, and just as little do they care for the privileges 
of policing the streets or peddling iron wares. In fact, all the 



woman’s life 139 

rest is unimportant compared with their position in the home, 
in which they live and move and have their being. 

In the home the woman rules. No modem man can still 
believe with Shakespeare that ^Trailty, thy name is woman!’’ 
Shakespeare disproved this himself with his Cleopatra, and 
with ling Lear’s daughters. Close observation of Chinese life 
seems to disprove the prevalent notion of woman’s dependence. 
The Chinese Empress Dowager ruled the nation, whether 
Emperor Hsienfeng was living or not. There are many Empress 
Dowagers in China still, politically or in common households. 
The home is the throne from which she makes appointments 
for mayors or decides the professions of her grandsons. 

The more one knows Chinese life, the more one realizes that 
the so-called suppression of women is an Occidental criticism 
that somehow is not borne out by a closer knowledge of Chinese 
life. That phrase certainly cannot apply to the Chinese mother 
and supreme arbiter of the household. Anyone who doubts 
this should read the Red Chamber Dream, a monument of Chinese 
home life. Study the position of the grandmother Chiamu, the 
relationship between Fengchieh and her husband, or that of 
any other couple (that of the father Chia Cheng and his wife 
is perhaps most normal and typical) and see whether it is the 
man or the woman who rules in die family. Some Western 
women readers might envy the position of the old grandmother, 
who was the most honoured person in the whole household, 
who was treated with decency and respect, and to whose cham- 
ber the daughters-in-law repaired almost every morning to pay 
their respects and decide the most important family affairs. 
What if Chiamu had a pair of bound feet and was secluded? 
The doorkeepers and men servants had to use their feet more 
than she. Or study the character of Madame Water, the 
mother of the Confucian hero in Tehsao Paoyen, who was well 
educated and a ‘model of Confucian wisdom, and who was 
undoubtedly the highest character in the whole novel. One 
word from her could bring her son the prime minister to his 
knees, and she watched over the welfare of the big family with 
infinite wisdom as a mother hen guards over her chicken-yard. 
She ruled with a wise and benign rulership, and all the 
daughters-in-law were her willing slaves. The character is 



140 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

perhaps overdrawn, but it is not mere fiction. Yes, woman 
rules in the family, while man rules outside it, for Confucius 
has set this sharp division of labour. 

The women Imow it, too. To-day the salesgirls in the depart- 
ment stores of Shanghai still look with eyes of envy on the 
married women with their fat handbags, and wish they were 
buying instead of selling. Sometimes they wish they were 
knitting sweaters for their babies instead of counting the change, 
and standing for a stretch of eight hours is long and tiring in 
high-heeled shoes. Most of them know instinctively which is 
the better thing. Some of them prefer their independence, 
but the so-called independence in a man-ruled society does not 
amount to much. The cynical ones laugh a little at this 
‘independence.’" The primeval urge of motherhood — ^formless, 
wordless and vague and strong — ^fiUs their whole beings. The 
maternal urge causes the cosmetic urge, all so innocent, so 
natural and so instinctive, and they count the savings from their 
starvation wages which hardly suffice to buy them the mesh 
stockings they are selling themselves. They wish they had a 
boy friend to buy them presents, and they would perhaps ask 
him to, indirectly, shyly, in an effort to keep their self-respect. 
Chinese girls are essentially decent, but why shouldn’t they ask 
men to buy them presents? How else may they purchase mesh 
stockings, which their instinct tells them they must have? Life 
is such a mix-up! All too clearly the idea dawns upon them 
that they want one man to buy them presents for life. They 
want to marry. Their instinct is right. What is wrong in 
marriage? What is wrong in protected motherhood? 

In the home they have arrived. They knit and they sew, 
although now in the middle-class families in Kiangsu and 
Chekiang they do not even cook or sew. For men have beat 
them on their own ground, and the best tailors and cooks are 
men and not women. Men will continue to beat them in 
every profession except marriage. For men have every advantage 
over women outside marriage, while inside marriage women 
have every advantage over men, and they know it. In every 
nation the happiness of women does not depend on how many 
social advantages they enjoy, but on the quality of the men 
they live with. Women suSer more from male tyranny and 



woman’s life 


I4I 

coarseness than from the disqualification to vote. When men 
are naturally reasonable and good-tempered and considerate, 
women do not suffer. Besides, women have always the weapon 
of sex, which they can use to great advantage. It is nature’s 
guarantee for their equality. Somehow every man, from 
emperor to butcher, baker and candlestick-maker, has scolded 
his wife and been scolded by her, because nature has ordained 
that man and woman should meet in their intimacies as equals. 
Certain fundamental relations, like that between husband and 
wife, differ much less in the different countries than one would 
imagine from travellers’ descriptions. Westerners are apt to 
imagine Chinese wives as mute slaves of their husbands, 
although actually Chinese husbands, on the average, are 
fairly reasonable and considerate beings; while Chinese are 
apt to think that, because the Westerners have never heard of 
Confucius, therefore Western wives don’t look after their 
husbands’ laundry and stomachs, but simply go to the beach 
in pyjama suits or live in a continuous round of dancing-parties. 
The unique and the exotic make such interesting after-dinner 
stories, while the central and common truths of humanity are 
forgotten. 

In real life, then, women have not really been oppressed by 
men. Many men who marry concubines and make cats’ nests 
of their homes and dodge from one woman’s chamber to another 
are the real sufferers. There is, moreover, that curious sexual 
attraction which makes it impossible for relatives of any 
degree, of different sex, to dislike each other strongly. Women, 
therefore, are not oppressed by their husbands or by their 
fathers-in-law, nor can sisters-in-law oppress one another, 
since they are of equal rank, although they never like each 
other. The only remaining possibility is that daughters-in-law 
may be oppressed by the mothers-in-law and this is often what 
actually happens. The life of the daughter-in-law in a big 
Chinese faniily with its manifold responsibilities is often a very 
hard one. For it must be remembered that a marriage in 
China is not an individual affair but a family affair; a man 
does not marry a wife but ‘‘marries a daughter-in-law,” as 
the idiomatic expression goes, and when a son is bom, the 
idiomatic expression is “a grandson has been bom.” A 



142 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

daughter-in-law, therefore, has more severe obligations toward 
her parents than toward her husband. A poem of the T’ang 
Dynasty by Wang Chien recorded a sympathetic sentiment 
for the “New Bride”: 

On the third day, washing her hands, 

She goes to make a soup of special savour. 

She knows not how the parents like it. 

And makes her husband’s sister taste its flavour. 

For a woman to please a man is a noble effort, but for her to 
please another woman is heroic, and many of them fail. The 
son, torn between loyalty to parents and love for his wife, 
never quite dares stand up for her. Practically all tales of 
cruelty to women could be traced to an oppressor of the same 
sex. But then, the daughter-in-law bides her time to be mother- 
in-law in turn. If she does arrive at that much-desired old age, 
it is truly a position of honour and power, well earned by a 
life of service. 


III. Ideal of Womanhood 

The seclusion of women has, however, a very definite in- 
fluence over our ideal of beauty, our ideal of womanhood, the 
education of our daughters, and the forms of love and court- 
ship in China. 

The Chinese and the Western conceptions of the feminine 
differ. While both conceptions envelop the feminine with a 
sense of charm and mystery, yet the point of view is essentially 
different. This is clearest in &e field of art. While in Western 
art the feminine body is taken as the source of inspiration and 
the highest perfection of pure rhythm, in Chinese art the 
feminine body itself borrows its beauty from the rhythms of 
nature. To a Chinese, nothing is more striking than that the 
statue of a woman should be placed high up in the harbour of 
New York, to be looked at by all people coming into the 
country. The idea of feminine exposure is indecorous to the 
extreme. And when he learns that the woman there does not 



woman’s life 143 

represent the feminine but the idea of liberty’s he is still more 
shocked. Why should Liberty be represented by a woman? 
And why should Victory and Justice and Peace be represented 
by women? The Greek ideal to him is new. For in the West 
man’s imagination has somehow deified woman and conferred 
on her a spiritual, ethereal quality, representing all that is 
pure, noble, beautiful and unearthly. 

To a Chinese, a woman is a woman, who does not know how 
to enjoy herself. A Chinese boy is told that he cannot grow up 
if he passes under a woman’s trousers on the washing-line. The 
idea of worship of a woman on a pedestal and the exposure of 
woman’s body are therefore manifestly impossible. With the 
seclusion of women, the exposure of the female form, both in 
art and in everyday life, seems indecorous to the extreme, and 
some of the masterpieces of Western painting in the Dresden 
Gallery are definitely classed under the category of porno- 
graphy. The fashionable modern Chinese artists who are 
aping the West dare not say so, but there are Continental 
artists who frankly admit the sensuous origin of all art and 
make no secret of it. 

But the Chinese libido is there, only dressed in a different 
expression. Women’s dress is not designed to reveal the body of 
the human form but to simulate nature. A Western artist may 
see, through the use of his sensuous imagination, a female nude 
form in the rising sea waves, while a Chinese sees in the 
draperies of the Goddess of Mercy the sea waves themselves. 
The whole rhythm of a woman’s form is modelled after the 
graceful rhythm of the weeping willows, which accounts for 
her intentionally drooping shoulders. Her eyes suggest the 
apricot, her eyebrows the crescent moon, the light of her eyes 
the silent waters of an autumn lake, her teeth are like the seeds 
of pomegranate, her waist like the weeping willows, her fingers 
like the spring bamboo-shoots and her bound feet again like 
the crescent moon. Such poetic expressions are by no means 
absent in the West, but the whole spirit of Chinese art, and the 
pattern of Chinese women’s dress in particular, justify the 
taking of such expressions seriously. For woman’s body, as 
body, the Chinese have no appreciation. We see very little of 
it in art. Chinese artists fail dismally in the portrayal of the 



144 my country and my people 

human form, and even an artist like Ch’iu Shihchou (Ming 
Period), famous for his paintings of female life, shows the upper 
part of the female nude form very much like a potato. Few 
Chinese, unversed in Western art, can tell the beauty of a 
woman’s neck or of a woman’s back. The Tsashih Pishin, a work 
ascribed to the Han Dynasty but really belonging to the Ming 
Period, gave a fairly good account of the perfect female nude 
body, showing a real delight in its form as such, but it is 
almost the only exception. This is one result of the seclusion 
of women. 

As a matter of fact, these changes of fashion do not matter. 
Women’s costumes will change, and men will admire them as 
long as they are worn by women, and women will wear them 
as long as men think them beautiful. The change from the 
Victorian crinoline and farthingale to the slim boyish figure of 
the early twentieth century and on to the Mae West craze of 
1935 is actually more striking than the difierence between the 
Chinese and foreign women’s dress. As long as women wear 
it, it is always divine for men. An international pageant of 
women’s dress ought to make this point sufficiently clear. Only 
a decade ago Chinese women paraded the streets in trousers and 
to-day they are floating in long gowns covering the ankles, 
while women in the West are wearing skirts, but the trousered 
pyjama has every possibility of coming into fashion. The only 
effect such changes give is that it engenders in men a broad 
mind. 

What is of far more importance is the connection between 
women’s seclusion and the ideal of womanhood. That ideal 
is the ideal of a ‘‘helpful wife and wise mother,” a phrase yery 
much held up to ridicule in modem China, especially by those 
modem women who desire above all “equality,” “indepen- 
dence,” “self-expression” and who regard wives and moffiers 
as dependent upon men, representing thus a typical confusion 
of ideas. 

Let us get the sexual relationships straight. It seems that a 
woman, when she becomes a mother, never thinks of her 
position as “dependent” on the pleasure of her husband. It 
is only when she ceases to be a mother that she feels her utter 
dependence. There was a time even in the West when mother- 



woman’ s life 


145 

hood and bearing and rearing children were not despised by 
society or by the women themselves. A mother seems to fit 
in with her position, a very highly honoured position, in the 
family. To bring a child into the world and lead him and guide 
him with her mother’s wisdom into manhood is enough work 
‘for any human being in a sane-minded society. Why she should 
be regarded as “dependent” on man, either socially or econo- 
mically, because she can do this noble work, and do it better 
than man, is a notion that is difficult to grasp. There are 
talented women, as there are talented men, but their number is 
actually less than democracy would have us believe. For these 
women, self-expression has a more important meaning than 
just bearing children. But for the common people, whose 
number is legion, let the men earn bread to feed tihe family, and 
let the women bear children. As for their self-expression, I have 
seen selfish, mean little wights blossom forth into gentle, all- 
loving and self-sacrificing mothers, who are models of perfec- 
tion and virtue in their children’s eyes. I have also seen 
beautiful girls who do not marry and who shrivel up in their 
thirties and never reach that second period of woman’s beauty, 
glorious like the autumn forest, more mature, more human, 
and more radiant, best seen in a happy wife three months after 
her confinement. 

Of all the rights of women, the greatest is to be a mother. 
Confucius spoke of the ideal society as the one in which there 
were “no unmarried men or women,” and this, in China, has 
been achieved through a different conception of romance 
and marriage. In Chinese eyes the great sin of Western society 
is the large number of unmarried women, who, through no 
fault of their own except the foolish belief in such a real being 
as Prince Charming, are unable to express themselves. Many 
of them are great as teachers or actresses, but they would be 
still greater as mothers. By falling in love and marrying 
perhaps an unworthy husband, a woman may fall into nature’s 
trap, whose sole concern is for her to propagate the race, but 
she also may be rewarded by nature with a curly-headed child, 
her triumph and her delight, more surprising than the greatest 
book she has ever written and saturating her with more real 
happiness than the moment of her greatest triumph on the 



146 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Stage. Isadora Duncan was honest enough to confess this. If 
nature is cruel, nature is fair. To the common women, as to 
the talented ones, she gives this comfort. For the joys of 
motherhood are enjoyed by the clever women and the com- 
mon ones. So nature has ordained, and so let men and women 
live. 


IV. Education of Our Daughters 

The different ideal of womanhood in China involved a 
different training for our daughters. The training for girls 
differs, or used to differ, radically from that for boys. It was 
much more severe for girls than for boys, and, coupled with the 
general earlier maturity of women, girls learned this family 
discipline earlier and were consequently soberer and better 
behaved than boys of the same age. The girl in any case had 
less of a childhood than the boy, and from the age of fourteen 
she began to seclude herself and learn the manners of woman- 
liness, for the Chinese conception emphasizes the womanly 
woman: She rises earlier than her brothers, dresses more neatly 
than they, helps in the kitchen and often helps to feed her 
younger brothers. She plays with fewer toys, does more work, 
talks more quietly, walks about more delicately, and sits more 
properly, with her legs close together. She learns, above all, 
demureness, at the cost of sprightliness. Something of the 
childish fun and tomfoolery goes out of her, and she does not 
laugh but only smiles. She is conscious of her virginity, and 
virginity in old China was a possession more precious than all 
the learning of the world. She does not easily let strangers see 
her, although she often peeps from behind the partitions. She 
cultivates the charm of mystery and distance, and the more she 
is secluded the more she is worth. Actually, in a man’s mind, a 
lady shut up in a medieval castle is more enchanting than a girl 
you daily see face to face across the lunch counter. She learns 
embroidery, and with her yoimg eyes and adroit fingers she 
does excellent work and gets along much faster than she would 
in trigonometry. The embroidery is pleasant because it gives 
her time to dream, and youth always dreams. Thus she is 



woman’s life 147 

prepared for the responsibiKties of wifehood and mother- 
hood. 

In educated families the girls learned also to read and to 
write. There have always been talented women in China^ and 
to-day there are over half a dozen women authors who have 
achieved a more or less national reputation. Many celebrated 
educated women were known in the Han Dynasty, and later 
in the Wei and Gh’ih Dynasties. One of these women was 
Hsieh Taoytin, who, as a conversationalist, often saved her 
brother-in-law from the verbal attacks of his guests. Literacy 
was limited in China, for men and for women, but scholars’ 
families always taught their daughters to read and to write. 
The content of this literary education was necessarily limited 
to literature, poetry, history and human wisdom, as absorbed 
from the Confucian classics. The girls stopped there, but really 
the men did not advance very much further. Literature, 
history, philosophy and the wisdom of life, together with some 
special knowledge of medicine or the rules of government, were 
the sum of human knowledge. The education of women was 
still 'more delfinitely humanistic. The difference was in 
intensiveness rather than in scope. 

For, reversing Pope’s dictum, the Chinese held that ‘Hoo 
much learning was a dangerous thing for women’s virtue.” In 
painting and in poetry they often played a hand, for the writing 
of short lyrics seemed especially suitable to women’s genius. 
These poems were short, dainty and exquisite, not powerful, 
Li Ch’ingchao (i 081-1141?), the greatest poetess of China, left 
a handful of immortal, impeiishable verse, full of the sentiment 
of rainy nights and recaptured happiness. The tradition of 
woman’s poetry has been practically unbroken, until in Manchu 
times we can count almost a thousand women who left poetry 
in print in this dynasty alone. Under the influence of Yiian 
Mei, the man who was against footbinding, a mode was set 
up for women to write poetry, which was greatly deprecated 
by another outstanding scholar, Chang Shihtsai, as being 
detrimental to the sound ideal of womanhood. But writing 
poetry did not really interfere with women’s duties as wife and 
mother, and Li Ch’ingchao was an ideal wife. She was no 
Sappho, 



148 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

The Chinese girl in ancient times was actually less socially 
accomplished than the Western girl, but under a good family 
breeding she had a better chance of succeeding as wife and 
mother and she had no career except the career of wife and 
mother. The Chinese men are now faced with the dilemma of 
choosing between the modern girl and the conservative girl for 
a wife. The ideal wife has been described as one ^^with new 
knowledge but old character.” The conflict of ideals (the new 
one being the wife who is an independent being and who looks 
down upon the expression ^‘helpful wife and wise mother”) 
calls for a ruthless application of common sense. While I regard 
the increased knowledge and education as an improvement 
and approaching the ideal of womanhood, I wager that we are 
not going to find, as we have not yet found, a world-renowned 
lady pianist or lady painter. I feel confident that her soup will 
stiU be better than her poetry and that her real masterpiece 
will be her chubby-faced boy. The ideal woman remains for 
me the wise, gentle and firm mother. 


V. Love and Courtship 

The question may arise: How with the seclusion of women 
was romance and courtship possible in China? Or rather in 
what way was the natural love between young people in- 
fluenced by this classical tradition? In youth and romance and 
love, the world is pretty much the same, only the psychological 
reactions differ as a result of different social traditions. For 
secluded as women may be, no classical teaching has yet 
succeeded in shutting out love. Its tenor and complexion may 
be altered, for love, which is a gushing, overwhelming feeling 
in nature, can become a small voice of the heart and thoughts. 
Civilization may transform love but it never stifles it. Love is 
there, only somehow receiving a different tenor and expression 
accidentally borrowed, as it were, from a different social and 
cultural background. It peeps in at the beaded curtains, it 
fills the air of the back garden, and it tugs at the maiden’s heart. 
Perhaps she has no lover, and she does not quite know what 
ails her. Perhaps she is not interested in any particular man, 



W OMAN * S LIFE 


149 

but she is in love with man, and being in love with man she 
is in love with hfe. That makes her work a little more neatly 
at her embroidery and imagine she is in love with the rainbow- 
coloured embroidery itself, as symbolizing life, which seems to 
her so beautiful. Very probably she is embroidering the design 
of a pair of mandarin ducks for someone’s pillow, those man- 
darin ducks which always go together, swim together, nest 
together in pairs, one male, the other female. If she stretches 
her imagination too much, she is liable to forget herself and 
make a wrong stitch. She tries again, but it goes wrong again. 
She pulls hard at the silken thread, a little too hard, and it 
slips out of the needle. She bites her lips and feels annoyed. She 
is in love. 

That feeling of annoyance at a vague unknown something, 
perhaps at spring and the flowers, that sudden overwhelming 
sense of loneliness in the world, is nature’s sign of a girl’s 
maturity for love and marriage. With the repressions of society 
and social conventions, a girl did her best to cover up this 
vague and strong yearning, but subconsciously youth dreamed 
on. Yet pre-marital love was a forbidden fhiit in old China, 
open courtship was impossible, and she knew that to love was to 
suffer. For that reason, she dared not let her thoughts dwell 
too fondly on the spring and the flowers and the butterflies, 
which are symbols of love in ancient poetry, and if she were 
educated, she would not allow herself to spend too much time 
on poetry, lest her emotions be touched too profoundly. She 
kept herself busy with her home duties and guarded her feelings 
as sacredly as a delicate flower preserves itself from premature 
contact with the butterflies. She wished to wait until the time 
should come when love would be lawful and sanctified by 
marriage, and happy was she who escaped all entanglements of 
passion. Yet nature sometimes conquered in spite of all human 
restraints. For like all forbidden fruits, the keenness of sexual 
attraction was enhanced by its rarity. It was nature’s law of 
compensation. Once a girl’s heart was distracted, according 
to the Chinese theory, love stopped at nothing. That was 
actually the common belief back of the careful seclusion of 
women. 

Even in her deepest seclusion every girl generally learned 



150 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

about all the marriageable young men of her class in town, and 
secretly distributed her approval and disapproval in her heart. 
If by casual chance she met one of the approved young men, 
even though it was only an exchange of glances, more than 
likely she succumbed, and had no more of the peace of mind 
of which she had been so proud. Then a period of secret, 
stolen courtship began. In spite of the fact that an exposure 
would mean shame and often suicide and in spite of the full 
consciousness that by so doing she was defying all codes of 
moral conduct and braving social censure, she would meet her 
young man. And love always found a way. 

In the mad, mutual attraction of sex it was impossible to say 
who was wooing and who was being wooed. A girl had many 
ingenious ways of making her presence felt. The most innocent 
form was showing one’s small red shoes beneath the wooden 
partitions. Another was standing on the verandah at sunset. 
Another was accidentally showing one’s face amidst peach 
blossoms. Another was going to the lantern festivals of January 
and June at night. Another was playing on the cKin, a stringed 
instrument, and letting the young man in the next house hear 
it. Another was asking the teacher of her younger brother to 
correct her poetry, with the younger brother as the messenger 
boy. The teacher, if he were young and romantic, might send 
a verse in reply. Still another means of communication was 
the maid-servant, or the sympathetic sister-in-law, or the cook’s 
wife next door, or the nun. If both parties were attracted to 
each other, a secret meeting could always be arranged. Such 
meetings were extremely unhealthy; the young girl did nol 
know how to protect herself, and love, which had been denied 
its gay jBhrtations, came back with a revenge, as all Chinese 
love stories portray, or wish to portray. She might come 
to expect a child. A real period of ardent courtship and love 
making followed, overpowering and yet tender, precioui 
because it was stolen, and generally too happy to last. 

In this situation anything might happen. The young man o: 
the young lady might become betrothed to others by nt 
consent of their own, and the girl regret having lost he 
chastity. Or the young man might go away and, becomini 
successful in his official examinations, might have a wif 



woman’s life 


forced upon him by a more distinguished family. Or one of the 
families might move to another city and they might never see 
each other again. Or even if the young man sojourning abroad 
should remain faithful, yet a war might come between, and 
there might be interminable waiting and delay. For the 
young maiden waiting in the secluded chamber there was only 
sadness and longing. If the girl were a real and passionate lover 
she became seriously lovesick (which is amazingly common in 
Chinese love stories), with all light and gladness gone from her 
eyes, and her parents, alarmed at the situation, would then 
begin to make inquiries and save her life by arranging the 
desired marriage, and so after all they might live happily 
ever after. 

Love then was mixed with tears and sadness and longing in 
Chinese thought, and the effect of this seclusion of women was 
to introduce a plaintive, languorous tone in all Chinese love 
poetry. Any Chinese love song after the T’ang Dynasty is 
invariably one of longing, resignation and infinite sadness. 
Often it is the song of the secluded maiden pining for her lover, 
or kweiyuan^ or that of the forsaken wife, chH fu^ both of which 
were, strange to say, extremely favourite topics with the male 
poets. 

Consonant with the general negative attitude toward life, 
Chinese songs of love are songs of absence, of departure, of 
frustrated hopes and unquenchable longing, of rain and the 
twilight and ihe empty chamber and the “cold bed,’’ of solitary 
regret and hatred against man’s inconstancy and the castaway 
fan in autunm, of departing spring and faded blossoms and 
fading beauty, of the flickering candlelight and winter nights 
and general emaciation, of self-pity and approaching death. 
This mood finds its typical expression in Taiyii’s poem before 
her approaching death, after she knew that her cousin was 
going to become Paoyii’s wife, lines that are memorable for 
their infinite sadness: 

This year I am burying the dropped blossoms, 

Next year who is going to bury me? 

But sometimes the girl may be lucky and may become a 



152 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

‘^helpful wife and wise mother.” The Chinese drama usually 
ends up happily with the refrain, -‘May all the lovers of the 
world become united in wedlock!” 


VI. The Goxjrtesan and Concubinage 

This is all very nice so far as woman goes. Woman is 
® ^helpful wife and wise mother.” She is loyal, she is obedient, 
she is always a good mother, and she is instinctively chaste. 
The trouble is with man. Man sins, and he must sin, but every 
time he sins there is a woman in it. 

Eros, who rules the world, rules China also. Some Western 
travellers have ventured the opinion that in China we find 
comparatively less sex repression than in the West, owing to a 
more frank acceptance of sex in human life. Havelock Ellis 
has noted that modern civilization has surrounded man with 
the greatest sexual stimulation coupled with the greatest 
sexual repression. To an extent, sexual stimulation and sexual 
repression are less in China. But this is only half the truth. The 
more frank acceptance of sex applies to man and not to woman, 
whose sexual life is often repressed. The clearest instance is 
that of Feng Hsiaoch’ing, who lived when Shakespeare was 
doing his best work (1595-1612), and who, as concubine, was 
forbidden to see her husband and was shut up in a villa in the 
West Lake by the jealous wife, and who consequently developed 
the most singular case of narcissism. She showed inclinations 
to look at her own image in the water, and shordy before her 
death she had three successive portraits of herself made, to 
which she burned incense and offered sacrifice in self-pity. 
Accidentally she left some verse in an amah’s hands which 
showed poetic genius. 

On the other hand, there is no sexual repression for men, 
especially those of the richer class. Most well-known respect- 
able scholars, like the poets Su Tungp’o, Ch’in Shaoyii, Tu Mu 
and Po Chtiyi, went to courtesans’ houses, or had courtesans 
for their concubines, and frankly said so. In fact, to be an 
ojficial and avoid dinners with female entertainers was im- 
possible. There was no opprobrium attached to it. Through 



woman" s life 


153 

the Ming and Manchu Periods, Ch’inhuaiho, the dirty creek 
in front of the Confucian Temple at Nanking, was the scene 
of many a love romance. The proximity to the Confucian 
Temple was appropriate and logical, because it was the 
place of the official examinations where scholars gathered for 
the examinations and celebrated their successes or consoled 
their failures in the company of women. To this day some 
editors of small papers still frankly detail their adventures in 
sing-song houses, and poets and scholars have written so pro- 
fusely about the sing-song tradition that the name of Ch"in- 
huaiho has been intimately associated with Chinese literary 
history. 

It is impossible to exaggerate the romantic, literary, musical, 
and political importance of the courtesan in China. Because 
men thought it improper for decent family girls to handle 
musical instruments, which were dangerous to their virtue, or 
to have too much literary learning, which was equally sub- 
versive of their morality, and but rarely encouraged painting 
and poetry for them, they did not, on that account, cease to 
desire female company of the artistic and literary type. The 
sing-song girls cultivated these things because they did not 
need ignorance as a bulwark of their virtue. So the scholars 
all went to Ch’inhuaiho. There in the summer night, when 
darkness had transformed the dirty creek into a Venetian 
canal, they would sit in a house-boat and listen to the singing 
of love ditties by girls in the neighbouring ‘lantern boats"" 
passing up and down. 

In this atmosphere scholars sought for those hetaeras who 
could distinguish themselves from the rest either in poetry, 
music, painting or witty repartee. Of such accomplished and 
well-known hetaeras who flourished especially at the end of the 
Ming Period, perhaps the one best loved by all was Tung 
Hsiaowan, who became the mistress of Mao Pichiang. To the 
T"ang Dynasty belonged Su Hsiaohsiao, whose tomb by the 
side of the West Lake has become the object of pilgrimage of 
every scholar tourist for ages. Not a few were closely connected 
with the political destinies of the nation, as in the case of Gh’en 
Yuanyiian, the beloved mistress of General Wu Sankwei. Her 
capture by Li Tzuch"eng during the latter"s conquest of Peking 



154 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

led Wu Sankwei to enter Peking with the assistance of Manchu 
troops for her recovery, and in this way directly contributed to 
the founding of the Manchu Dynasty. It is noteworthy that 
after Wu had thus brought about the downfall of the Chinese 
Ming empire, Ch’en Yiianyuan separated from him and chose 
to live as a nun in a specially built monastery on Shangshan. 
We have also the case of Li Hsiangchiin, who was reputed for 
her constancy and whose poHtical inclinations and courage put 
many a man to shame by comparison. She had more political 
chastity than many men revolutionists of to-day. After her 
lover had been hounded out of Nanking she shut herself up, 
and when she was forcibly brought to the home of the oflScial 
in power and commanded to sing at a wine-feast, she improvised 
songs of satire in the presence of her captors, who were her 
political enemies, calling them ‘‘adopted sons of the eunuch.” 
Poems and songs written by these ladies have been handed 
down to the present. The history of Chinese intellectual women 
will have to be sought partly in the lives of such accomplished 
courtesans as Hsiieh T’ao,Ma Hsianglan,LiuJushih and others. 

The courtesan supplied the need for courtship and romance 
which many men missed in their youth before marriage. I 
speak of “courtship” advisedly, because the sing-song girl, 
differing from the common prostitutes, had to be courted. 
Such was the respect for ladies in China that, as we are told 
in the novel Chiuweikuei {Mine-Tailed Tortoise) describing 
modern times, many a man had to court a lady of supposedly 
easy virtue for months and spend three or four thousand dollars 
before he was permitted to pass a night in her boudoir. Such 
a preposterous situation was possible only with the seclusion of 
women, but when men could not find female company and 
romance elsewhere, it was also perfecdy natural. The man, 
inexperienced in female company and tired of his wife-cook- 
and-sock-darner, began to experience what Western men call 
romance before their marriage. He saw a lady who took his 
fancy, desired her, and began to have a feeling analogous to 
falling in love. The lady, being so much more experienced and 
accomplished, had an easy game, and the man sometimes had a 
feeling almost of worship. It was, in fact, the one kind of court- 
ship legitimate and proper in China. 



woman’ s life 


155 

Sometimes an actual romance developed, as with Western 
men and their mistresses. The story of Tung Hsiaowan and 
Mao Pichiang, from the difficulties of their first meeting to their 
short-lived, blissful wedded life, reads in no way differently 
from any other romance. There were romances with happy and 
unhappy endings. While Li Hsiangchiin ended up in a 
monastery, Ku Hengp’o and Liu Jushih ended up as grandes 
dames in rich official families, to the envy and admiration of 
their generation. 

The courtesan, therefore, taught many Chinese romantic 
love, as the Chinese wife taught them a more earthly, real love. 
Sometimes the situation was actually confusing, and Tu Mu, 
who led a wild life for ten years, came back to his old wife 
after an awakening. Sometimes, too, the chastity of the courte- 
san was amazing, as in the case of Tu Shihniang. Besides, 
she carried on the musical tradition of the country, which 
without her would have died off. She was more cultivated, 
more independent, and more at home in men’s society than 
were the family women; in fact, she was the emancipated lady 
in ancient China. Her influence over high officials often gave 
her a measure of political influence, for sometimes it was in 
her house that political appointments were interceded for 
and decided upon. 

A really deserving courtesan often became a concubine or 
mistress, as did practically all the above-mentioned women. 
Concubinage is as old as China itself, and the problem behind 
concubinage is as old as monogamy. When the marriage is 
unhappy the Oriental solves it by going to the sing-song girl 
or taking a concubine, while the Occidental solves it by keeping 
a mistress or having occasional escapades. The modes of 
social behaviour are different, while the fundamental problems 
axe curiously the same. What makes a difference is the social 
attitude, especially that of women, toward such behaviour. 
Chinese take mistresses with public consent, while Westerners 
have the decency not to talk about it. 

The insistence on male progeny also greatly encouraged 
concubinage. Some Chinese wives actually pleaded with their 
husbands to take concubines, when they themselves had failed 
to produce a son. The laws of the Ming Dynasty officially 



156 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

sanctioned the marrying of concubines in the case of a man 
reaching forty without male progeny. 

Moreover, concubinage in a way takes the place of divorce 
in Western countries. Marriage and divorce are the most 
complicated social problems, and no one has yet solved them. 
No perfect solution has yet been invented by the human mind, 
except that Roman Catholic solution which ignores the 
existence of such problems altogether. The only thing sure is 
that marriage is the safest protection for women, and whenever 
men’s morals relax it is the women who suflFer, whether it be 
through divorce, concubinage, companionate marriage or free 
love. There is by nature something eternally unequal and 
unfair in the sexual arrangement. For sexual equality is an 
unknown word in nature, whose sole concern is the propagation 
of the race. The so-called modern marriages on a fifty-fifty 
basis have always become a seventy-five and twenty-five 
arrangement in favour of the men with the advent of children, 
and if the woman is sporting enough to release the husband 
“when love ceases” the man of forty enjoys advantages which 
the divorced woman of forty and mother of three children 
cannot have. No true equality is possible. 

It is in this sense that some defence may be made in favour of 
concubinage. The Chinese regard marriage as a family affair, 
and when marriage fails they accept concubinage, which at 
least keeps the family intact as a social unit. The West, in 
turn, regards marriage as an individual, romantic and senti- 
mental affair, and therefore accepts divorce, which breaks 
up the social unit. In the East, when a man gets too rich, has 
nothing to do, degenerates and neglects his wife for his favourite, 
the wife suppresses her libido but keeps her established position, 
stin very highly honoured as head of the family and sur- 
rounded by her own children. In the West, the modem wife 
sues for divorce, gets her alimony and goes away, perhaps to 
remarry. Whether the wife who remains neglected by her 
husband but honoured by. the household and holding at least 
a theoretic supremacy over the concubines, or the wife who gets 
her alimony and lives apart is happier is a question that is 
perplexing in the highest degree. In China, where the women 
have not the spirit of independence of their Western sisters. 



woman’s life 


157 

the castaway wife often seems an infinitely pathetic spectacle, 
with her social position lost and her home broken. Always 
there is one happy woman, and one who cannot be made happy 
by any human arrangement. Even real economic independence 
of women will not solve it. 

In China such cases zire happening every day before our 
eyes, and it has sometimes seemed to me that the modem 
woman who drives out the old wife with her feminine ferocity 
approximates very nearly the state of barbarism of our fore- 
fathers, in spite of the fact that she is modem enough not to 
tolerate living under the same roof with another woman as her 
equal. In the past a reaUy good woman, who was caught in 
circumstances that involved her with a married man and who 
truly loved him, was willing to go to his family as concubine 
and serve the wife with humility and respect. Now driving one 
another out and taking one another’s place by turn in the name 
of monogamy seems to the women to be the better way. It is 
the modem, emancipated, so-called civilized way. If women 
prefer it that way, let them have it, since it is they who are 
primarily affected by it. The young and beautiful ones, 
however, will win in the battle against their own sex at the 
expense of the older women. The problem is really so new and 
yet so old. The marriage system will be imperfect as long as 
human nature is imperfect. Let us therefore agree to leave the 
problem unsolved. Perhaps only an innate sense of equity and 
fair-play and an increased sense of parental responsibility will 
ever reduce the number of such cases. 

Of course, it is useless to defend concubinage, unless one is 
ready to defend polyandry at the same time. Ku Hungming, 
the Edinburgh M.A. and profuse quoter of Thomas Carlyle 
and Matthew Arnold, once defended concubinage by saying: 
“You have seen a tea-pot with four tea-cups, but did you ever 
see a tea-cup with four tea-pots?” The best reply to this are 
the words of P’an Ghinlien, concubine of Hsimen Ch’ing in 
Ckinp’inmei; “Do you ever see two spoons in the same bowl 
that do not knock against each other?” She knew what she was 
talking about. 



l6o MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

psychopathology. As much artistic finesse was exercised in the 
appreciation of different types of bound feet as was ever ex- 
pended over the criticism of T’ang poetry. When one remem- 
bers that really small and well-shaped feet were rare, perhaps 
less than ten in a city, it is easy to understand how men could 
be moved by them as they might be moved by exquisite poetry. 
Fang Hsien of the Manchu Dynasty wrote an entire book 
devoted to this art, classifying the bound feet into five main 
divisions and eighteen types. Moreover, a bound foot should 
be (A) Fat, (B) Soft and (G) Elegant^ so says Fang: 

Thin feet are cold, and muscular feet are hard. Such feet 
are incurably vulgar. Hence fat feet are full and smooth to 
the touch, soft feet are gentle and pleasing to the eye, and 
elegant feet are refined and beautiful. But fatness does not 
depend on the flesh, softness does not depend on the binding, 
and elegance does not depend on the shoes. Moreover, you 
may judge its fatness and softness by its form, but you may 
appreciate its elegance only by the eye of the mind. 

Ail those who understand the power of fashion over women 
will understand the persistence of this institution. It is curious 
to note that the decree of the Manchu Emperor K’anghsi to 
stop footbinding among the Chinese was rescinded within a 
few years, and Manchu girls were soon imitating Chinese girls 
in this fashion until Emperor Gh’ienlung issued an edict and 
forbade them. Mothers who wanted their girls to grow up into 
ladies and marry into good homes had to bind their feet young 
as a measure of parental foresight, and a bride who was praised 
for her small feet had a feeling analogous to filial gratitude. For 
next to a good face, a woman was immeasurably proud of her 
small feet, as modem women are proud of their sm^ ankles, for 
these feet gave her an immediate distinction in any social 



Yti Chenghsieh (1775-1840), all scholars of independent minds 
and considerable influence. But the custom was not abolished 
until the Christian missionaries led the crusade, a debt for 
which Chinese women ought to be grateful. But in this the 
missionaries have been fortunately helped by the force of 
circumstances, for Chinese women have found in the modern 
high-heeled shoes a tolerable substitute. They enhance the 
women’s figures, develop a mincing gait and create the illusion 
that the feet are smaller than they really are. Li Liweng’s 
profound observation in his essays on the art of living is still 
true: ‘T have seen feet of three inches without heeled shoes 
and feet of four or five inches on heeled shoes stand on the 
same place, and felt that the three-inch feet are bigger than the 
four- or five-inch feet. Because with heels, the toes point do\vn- 
wards, the flat feet seem pointed, while without heels, the 
jade bamboo-shoots [the toes] rise toward heaven, and pointed 
feet look flat.” Such profound observation on the details of an 
idle life is always characteristic of the Chinese genius. 


VIII. Emancipation 

The seclusion of women has now gone. It has gone so fast 
that people who left China ten years ago find, on coming back, 
a change in the whole physical and mental outlook of Chinese 
girls so vast as to shake their most profound convictions. The 
girls of the present generation differ in temperament, grace, 
bearing and spirit of independence from the “modern” girls of 
ten or twelve years ago. Myriad influences are at work, causing 
this change. In general, they may be called the Western 
influences. 

Specifically they are: the change from monarchy to republic 
in 1911, admitting sexual equality; the Renaissance started in 
1916-17, headed by Dr. Hu Shih and Ch’enTuhsiu, denouncing 
the “chaste widowhood” of the “man-eating religion” (Con- 
fucianism) and the double sex standard; the May Fourth 
Movement or Student Movement 011919, brought about by the 
secret selling of China by the Allies at the Versailles Conference, 
and precipitating the active part taken in politics by boy 



158 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


VII. Footbinding 

The nature and origin of footbinding has been greatly 
misunderstood. Somehow it has stood as a symbol of the 
seclusion and suppression of women^ and very suitably so. The 
great Confucian scholar Ghu Hsi of the Sung Dynasty was 
also enthusiastic in introducing footbinding in southern Fukien 
as a means of spreading Chinese culture and teaching the 
separation of men and women. But if it had been regarded 
only as a symbol of the suppression of women, mothers would 
not have been so enthusiastic in binding the feet of their young 
daughters. Actually, footbinding was sexual in its nature 
throughout. Its origin was undoubtedly in the courts of 
licentious kings, its popularity with men was based on the 
worship of women’s feet and shoes as a love-fetish and on the 
feminine gait which naturally followed, and its popularity 
with women was based on their desire to curry men’s favour. 

The time of origin of this institution is subject to debate, 
which is somewhat unnecessary, since it would be more proper 
to speak of its ‘‘evolution.” The only proper definition of 
footbinding is the binding of the feet by long yards of binding 
cloth and the discarding of the socks, and this seemed to be 
first definitely mentioned in connection with Nant’ang Houchu, 
in the first part of the tenth century, or before the Sung 
Dynasty. Yang Kweifei (T’ang Dynasty) still wore socks, for 
one of her socks was picked up by her amah and shown to the 
public after her death, at the admission rate of a hundred cash 
a person. Rapturous praise of women’s small feet and their 
“bow-shoes” had become a fashion in the T’ang Dynasty. 
The “bow-shoes,” with upturned heads like the bow of a 
Roman galley, were the beginnings or rudimentary forms of 
footbinding. These were used by the dancing girls of the court, 
and in this luxurious atmosphere of female dancing and court 
perfume and beaded curtains and rare incense, it was natural 
that a creative mind should have appeared and put the last 
finishing touch to this sensual sophistication. This creative 
mind belonged to the ruler of Nant’ang (Southern T’ang, k 
short-lived dynasty), who was an exquisite poet besides. One 



woman’s life 


159 

of his girls with bound feet was made to dance with light tiptoe 
steps on a golden lily six feet high, hung all over with jewels 
and pearls and golden threads. Thereafter, the fashion was set 
and imitated by the public, and the bound feet were euphuis- 
tically called ''golden lilies” or "fragrant lilies,” which enabled 
them to pass into poetry. The word "fragrant” is significant, 
for it suggests the voluptuous atmosphere of the rich Chinese, 
whose chambers were filled with rare and fine perfume on 
which whole volumes have been written. 

That women were not only willing but actually glad to be 
fashionable and d la mode at the expense of bodily comfort is 
nothing peculiarly Chinese. As late as 1824, English girls were 
willing to lie on the floor while their mothers by foot and hand 
were helping to squeeze their bodies inside the whale-bones.^ 
These whale-bones must have greatly assisted the eighteenth- 
century and early nineteenth-century European women in 
fainting at the proper moment. Women may be frail in China, 
but it has never been the fashion to faint. The tiptoe dancing 
of the Russian ballet is but another example of the beauty of 
human torture which may be honoured with the name of an 
art. 

The small feet of Chinese women are not only pleasing in 
men’s eyes but in a strange and subtle way they influence the 
whole carriage and walking gait of the women, throwing the 
hips backward, somewhat like the modem high-heeled shoes, 
and effecting an extremely gingerly gait, the body "shimmy- 
ing” all over and ready to fall at the slightest touch. Looking 
at a woman with bound feet walking is like looking at a rope- 
dancer, tantalizing to the highest degree. The bound foot is 
indeed the highest sophistication of the Chinese sensual 
imagination. 

Then, entirely apart from the feminine gait, men had come 
to worship and play with and admire and sing about the small 
feet as a love-fetish. From now on, night shoes were to occupy 
an important place in all sensual poetry. The cult of the 
"golden iny” belonged undoubtedly to the realm of sexual 

^ A fasHon journal of the time says: “When lacing the new stays, the young 
lady should lie face downwards on her bedroom floor, and her mother should 
place her foot in the small of her daughter's bach in order to obtain good 
purchase. There should be then no difiOlc^ty in malring the stays meet." 



l6o MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

psychopathology. As much artistic finesse was exercised in the 
appreciation of different types of bound feet as was ever ex- 
pended over the criticism of T’ang poetry. When one remem- 
bers that really small and well-shaped feet were rare, perhaps 
less tban ten in a city, it is easy to understand how men could 
be moved by them as they might be moved by exquisite poetry. 
Fang Hsien of the Manchu Dynasty wrote an entire book 
devoted to this art, classifying the bound feet into five main 
divisions and eighteen types. Moreover, a bound foot should 
be (A) Fat, (B) Soft and (G) Elegantj so says Fang: 

Thin feet are cold, and muscular feet are hard. Such feet 
are incurably vulgar. Hence fat feet are full and smooth to 
the touch, soft feet are gentle and pleasing to the eye, and 
elegant feet are refined and beautiful. But fatness does not 
depend on the flesh, softness does not depend on the binding, 
and elegance does not depend on the shoes. Moreover, you 
may judge its fatness and softness by its form, but you may 
appreciate its elegance only by the eye of the mind. 

All those who understand the power of fashion over women 
will understand the persistence of this institution. It is curious 
to note that the decree of the Manchu Emperor K’anghsi to 
stop footbinding among the Chinese was rescinded within a 
few years, and Manchu girls were soon imitating Chinese girls 
in this fashion until Emperor Gh’ienlung issued an edict and 
forbade them. Mothers who wanted their ^rls to grow up into 
ladies and marry into good homes had to bind their feet young 
as a measure of parental foresight, and a bride who was praised 
for her small feet had a feeling andogous to filial gratitude. For 
next to a good face, a woman was immeasurably proud of her 
small feet, as modem women are proud of their small ankles, for 
these feet gave her an immediate distinction in any social 
gathering. Her bound feet were painful, immercifully painful, 
during the time of growing youth, but if she had a well-shaped 
pair, it was her pride for life. 

. This monstrous and perverse institution was condemned by 
at least three scholars, Li Juchen (author of a feminist novel, 
Chinghaayuan, written in 1825), Yttan Mei (1716-1799), and 



WOMAN*SLIFE l6l 

Yti Ghenghsieh (1775-1840), all scholars of independent minds 
and considerable inJSuence. But the custom was not abolished 
until the Christian missionaries led the crusade, a debt for 
which Chinese women ought to be grateful. But in this the 
missionaries have been fortunately helped by the force of 
circumstances, for Chinese women have found in the modem 
high-heeled shoes a tolerable substitute. They enhance the 
women’s figures, develop a mincing gait and create the illusion 
that the feet are smaller than they really are. Li Liweng’s 
profound observation in his essays on the art of living is still 
true: ‘T have seen feet of three inches without heeled shoes 
and feet of four or five inches on heeled shoes stand on the 
same place, and felt that the three-inch feet are bigger than the 
four- or five-inch feet. Because 'v^dth heels, the toes point down- 
wards, the flat feet seem pointed, while without heels, the 
jade bamboo-shoots [the toes] rise toward heaven, and pointed 
feet look flat.” Such profound observation on the details of an 
idle life is always characteristic of the Chinese genius. 


VIII. Emancipation 

The seclusion of women has now gone. It has gone so fast 
that people who left China ten years ago find, on coming back, 
a change in the whole physical and mental outlook of Chinese 
girls so vast as to shake their most profound convictions. The 
girls of the present generation differ in temperament, grace, 
bearing and spirit of independence from the “modem” girls of 
ten or twelve years ago. Myriad influences are at work, causing 
this change. In general, they may be called the Western 
influences. 

Specifically they are: the change from monarchy to republic 
in 1911, admitting sexual equality; the Renaissance started in 
1916-1 7, headed by Dr. Hu Shih and Ch’en Tuhsiu, denouncing 
the “chaste widowhood” of the “man-eating religion” (Con- 
fucianism) and the double sex standard; the May Fourth 
Movement or Student Movement of 1919, brought about by the 
secret selling of China by the Allies at the Versailles Conference, 
and precipitating the active part taken in politics by boy 



1 62 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


and girl students; the first admittance of girl students 
to the Peking National University in the autumn of 1919, 
followed by co-education in almost all colleges; the con- 
tinued interest taken in national politics by boy and girl 
students, leading to the National Revolution of 1926-7, which 
was largely the work of the students, under the combined 
leadership and encouragement of the Kuomintang and the 
Communist Party, and in which Chinese girls figured promi- 
nently as party workers and nurses and even as soldiers; the 
continued position of girl Kuomintang members in the party 
headquarters after the founding of the government of Nanking; 
the sudden prominence of girl civil service servants in ^1 
official bureaux of the government after 1927; the promul- 
gation by the Nanking Government of the law entitling 
daughters and sons to equal inheritance; the progressive 
disappearance of concubinage; the prevalence of girls’ schools; 
the great popularity of athletics for girls after 1930, and in 
particular swimming for girls in 1934; the vogue for nude 
pictures, to be seen every day in newspapers and magazines; 
the coming of Margaret Sanger to China in 1922, and the 
general spread of birth-control and sex education; the intro- 
duction of contraceptive appliances (which alone must precipi- 
tate a revolution in ethics) ; the publication of weekly ^ Vomen’s 
supplements” in most big papers, devoted to the discussion of 
women’s problems; the publication of Sex Histories (rather 
degenerating) by Chang Chingsheng, a French-returned 
student; the influence of Greta Garbo, Norma Shearer, Mae 
West, and Chinese movie stars, and the popularity of movie 
magazines, of which there are several; the great spread of 
dancing cabarets which came over China about 1928, and in 
which the Chinese girls gave everybody a surprise by their 
ready adaptability; the permanent wave, English high-heeled 
shoes, Parisian perfumes and American silk stockings, the 
new high-slit flowing gowns, the brassiere (in place of the 
former chest-binding jacket), and the one-piece female bathing 
suit. 

From bound feet to one-piece bathing suit is indeed a far 
cry, and these changes, superficial as they seem, are neverthe- 
less profound. For life is made up of such superficialities, and 



by altering them we alter the whole outlook of life. 

Modem girls are subjected to current ridicule in Chinese 
magazines for their superficialities, their love of luxury, and 
their loss of industry and other domestic virtues. For apparently 
the influence of Mae West is greater than that of Mary 
Wollstonecraft. The fact is, there are two types of girls: those 
who figure so prominently in city life, and the more serious- 
minded and intellectual ones who are not in such prominence 
and who disappear into good homes. Some of the politically 
prominent women who court publicity are the worst scoundrels 
of their sex; they therefore do not represent modem Chinese 
womanhood. On the whole, these modem influences must be 
taken as liberalizing influences working for the good of Chinese 
womanhood and therefore of the race. The first important 
effect is on the girPs physique. The exposure of female thighs 
in athletic contests, so much regretted by the older generation, 
must in the end work for the good of the nation. With the 
development of physique comes a more naturally graceful 
movement than the boudoir-cultivated movements of the 
bound feet. 

Consequent upon this physical change is a change in the 
ideal of female beauty, from the repressed quietness of former 
days to the more natural sprightliness of a human being, 
approaching that of European ladies. For it does one good to 
hear women laugh a hearty laugh, and it is better than to hear 
them giggle. The artificial restraint and over-sexualization 
of women under Confucianism must give place to a more 
human view, and can no longer come back. The danger is 
rather of desexualization and of the total loss of the womanly 
woman. The idea of women trying to ape men in their manners 
is in itself a sign of women’s bondage. Let women be proud of 
their own sex, for only in the fulfilment of their sex and its grave 
responsibilities will tibey be truly great. Compared with the 
Western women, the modem mature Chinese women are still 
perhaps more poised and dignified, but they lack, on the other 
hand, the spontaneity and spirit of independence of their 
Western sisters. Perhaps it is in their blood, but if so, let it be as 
it is, for only by being true to their race can they be great also. 



Chapter Six 

SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 


I. Absence of the Social Mind 

THE Chinese are a nation of individualists. They are family- 
minded, not sodal-minded, and the family mind is only a 
form of magnified selfishness. It is curious that the word 
“society” does not exist as an idea in Chinese thought. In the 
Confucian social and political philosophy we see a direct 
transition from the family, chia, to the state, kuo, as successive 
stages of human organization, as in such sayings as “When the 
family is orderly, then the state is peaceful,” or “Put the family 
in order and rule the state in peace.” The nearest equivalent 
to the notion of society is, then, a compound of the two words, 
kuochia, or “state-family,” in accordance with the rule for 
for ming Chinese abstract terms. 

“Public spirit” is a new term, so is “civic consciousness,” and 
so is “social service.” There are no such commodities in China. 
To be sure, there are “social affairs,” such as weddings, funerals, 
and birthday celebrations and Buddhistic processions and 
annual festivals. But the things which make up English and 
American social life, viz., sport, politics and religion, are con- 
spicuously absent. There is no church and no church com- 
munity. The Chinese religiously abstain from talking politics; 
they do not cast votes, and they have no club-house debates on 
politics. They do not indulge in sport, which binds human 
beings together, and which is the essence of the English and 
American social life. They play games, to be sure, but these 
games are characteristic of Chinese individualism. Chinese 
games do not divide the players into two parties, as in cricket, 
with one team playing against the other. Team work is 
unknown. In Chhiese card games, each man plays for himself 
The Chinese like poker, and do not like bridge. They have 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 165 

always played mahjongs which is nearer to poker than to bridge. 
In this philosophy of mahjong may be seen die essence of Chinese 
individualism. 

An illustration of Chinese individualism may be seen in the 
organization of a Chinese newspaper. The Chinese run thdbr 
papers as they play their mahjong, I have seen Chinese daily 
papers so edited as to require an editor-in-chief* whose only 
business is to write editorials. The man in charge of domestic 
news has his page, the man in charge of international cables has 
his, and the man in charge of city news again has his own 
ground. These four men handle their respective departments 
hke the four hands at a mahjong table, each trying to guess what 
the others have got. Each tries to make up his set and throws 
out the unwanted bamboo to the next man. If there is too 
much domestic news, it can conveniently flow over (without 
warning, as far as the reader is concerned) to the page for 
city news, and if this again has too much copy, it can con- 
veniently flow over to the murders and conflagrations. There 
is no necessity for front-page make-up, no selection, no co- 
ordination, no subordination. Each editor can retire at his 
own good time. The scheme is simplicity itself. Moreover, both 
the editors and the readers are bom individualists. It is the 
editor’s business to publish the news, and the reader’s business 
to look for it. They do not interfere with one another. This is 
the journalistic technique of some of the oldest, largest and 
most popular daily papers in China to this day. 

If you ask why there is no co-ordination, the answer is, 
there’s no social mind. For if the editor-in-chief tries to 
initiate reforms and fire the city editor for obstruction, he will 
run up against the family system. What does he mean by 
interfering with other people’s business? Does he mean to 
throw the city editor out and break his rice-bowl, starving all 
the people dependent upon him? And if the city editor’s wife 
is the proprietor’s niece, can he throw him out? If the editor- 
in-chief has any Chinese social consciousness, he will not 
attempt such a thing, and if he is a raw American-returned 
graduate of the Missouri School of Journalism, he will soon 
have to get out. Another man who knows Chinese social 
ways will get in, the old scheme will go on working, the readers 



l66 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

will go on hunting for their news and the paper will go on 
increasing its circulation and making money. 

Some such psychology is hidden behind all Chinese social 
intercourse, and it would be easy to multiply examples showing 
a lack of the social mind truly bewildering to the twentieth- 
century Western man. I say ‘^twentieth-century man’’ because 
he has received the benefits of nineteenth-century humani- 
tarianism, with a broadened social outlook. As a typically 
bewildering example, which is yet truly representative of 
Chinese thought regarding social work, I quote verbally from 
the Analects Fortnightly (a magazine devoted to unconscious 
Chinese humour) reporting the speech of a native war-lord 
regarding the movement for mass education. The young 
people caught with the modern American enthusiasm for 
social service organized a movement for ‘‘annihilating literary 
blindness.” So saith the General, therefore, in a speech: 
“Students ought to work at their books and not meddle with 
public affairs. The people do their own business and eat their own 
rice^ and you want to annihilate the peopleF^ The persuasive 
argument is this: the illiterate are not interfering with you, 
why must you interfere with them? Those words, so short, 
so forceful, are yet so true because they come direct and 
xmdisguised from the speaker’s heart. To a Chinese, social 
work always looks like “meddling with other people’s busi- 
ness.” A man enthusiastic for social reform or, in fact, for any 
kind of public work always looks a little bit ridiculous. We 
discount his sincerity. We cannot understand him. What does 
he mean by going out of his way to do all this work? Is he 
courting publicity? Why is he not loyal to his family and why 
does he not get official promotion and help his family first? 
We decide he is young, or else he is a deviation from the normal 
human type. 

There were always such deviations from type, the haohsieh or 
“chivalrous men,” but they were invariably of the bandit or 
vagabond class, unmarried, bachelors with good vagabond 
souls, willing to jump into the water to save an unknown 
drowning child. (Married men in China do not do that.) 
Or else they were married men who died penniless and made 
their wives and children sufier. We admire them, we love 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE iSj 

them, but we do not like to have them in the family. When we 
see a boy who has too much public spirit getting himself 
into all sorts of scrapes, we confidently predict that boy will be 
the death of his parents. If we can break him early enough, well 
and good; if not, he will go to jail and ruin the family fortune 
besides. But it isn’t always as bad as that. If we cannot break 
him, he will probably run away from home and join the public- 
spirited brigands. That is why they are “deviations.” 

How is such a state of things possible? The Chinese are not 
such heathens, deep-drowned in their sins, as the Christian 
missionaries would imagine, although here the word “heathen,” 
with all the force of Christian contempt and condemnation, 
seems eminently applicable. It would be better if the mission- 
aries tried to understand them and attack the evil from its 
source, for back of it is a social philosophy different from theirs. 
The difference is a difference of point of view. The best 
modem educated Chinese still cannot understand why Western 
women should organize a “Society for the Prevention of 
Cruelty to Animals.” Why bother about the dogs, and why do 
they not stay at home and nurse their babies? We decide that 
these women have no children and therefore have nothing 
better to do, which is probably often true. The conflict is 
between the family mind and the social mind. If one scratches 
deep enough, one always finds the family mind at work. 

For the family system is the root of Chinese society, from 
which all Chinese social characteristics derive. The family 
system and the village system, which is the family raised to a 
higher exponent, account for aU there is to explain in the 
Chinese social life. Face, favour, privilege, gratitude, courtesy, 
official coiTuption, public institutions, the school, the guild, 
philanthropy, hospitality, justice, and finally the whole govern- 
ment of China — all spring from the family and village system, 
all borrow from it their peculiar tenor and complexion, and 
all find in it enlightening explanations for their peculiar 
characteristics. For from the family system there arises the 
family mind, and from the family mind there arise certain 
laws of social behaviour. It wiU be interesting to study these 
and see how man behaves as a social being in the absence of a 
social mind. 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


1 68 


II. The Family System 

There were formerly no such words as ‘‘family system” as a 
sociological term; we knew the family only as “the basis of the 
state,” or rather as the basis of human society. The system 
colours all our social life. It is personal, as our conception of 
government is personal. It teaches our children tihte first 
lessons in social obligations between man and man, the 
necessity of mutual adjustment, self-control, courtesy, a sense 
of duty, which is very well defined, a sense of obligation and 
gratitude toward parents, and respect for elders. It very nearly 
takes the place of religion by giving man a sense of social 
survival and family continuity, thus satisfying man’s craving 
for immortality, and through the ancestral worship it makes the 
sense of immortality very vivid. It breeds a sense of family 
honour, for which it is so easy to find parallels in the West. 

It touches us even in very personal ways. It takes the right 
of contracting marriage from our hands and gives it to those 
of our parents; it makes us marry, not wives but “daughters- 
in-law,” and it makes our wives give birth, not to children but 
to “grandchildren.” It multiplies the obligations of the bride 
a hundredfold. It makes it rude for a young couple to close 
the door of their room in the family house in the daytime, and 
makes privacy an unknown word in China. Like the radio, it 
accustoms us to noisy weddings, noisy funerals, noisy suppers 
and noisy sleep. And like the radio, it benumbs our nerves 
and develops our good temper. The Western man is like a 
maiden who has only herself to look after, and who con- 
sequently manages to look neat and tidy, while the Chinese 
man is like the daughter-in-law of a big family who has a 
thousand and one household obligations to attend to. It 
therefore breeds in us soberness at an early age. It keeps our 
young in their places. It overprotects our child.ren, and it is 
strange how few children rebel and run away Where the 
parents are top self-centred and autocratic, it often deprives the 
young man of enterprise and initiative, and I consider this 
the most disastrous effect of the family system on Chinese 
character. A parent’s funeral interferes with a scholar’s 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 169 

chances at the official examinations for three years, and is good 
ground for the resignation of a cabinet minister. 

Family ethics interferes even with our travel and sport, for 
the theory was developed in the Hsiaoking^ or Classic of Filial 
Piefy (which every schoolboy used to memorize), that *'the 
body, the hair and the skin are received from the parents and 
may not be injured.’® Tsengtse, the great disciple of Confucius, 
said on his deathbed, “Examine my hands, examine my feet,” 
which had been kept intact to return to his forefathers. This 
already borders on a religious feeling. It limits our travels, for 
Confucius said, “A man does not travel to distant places when 
his parents are living, and if he does he must have a definite 
destination.” The best form of travel, i.e., travel without 
destination and without hoping to arrive anywhere, is there- 
fore theoretically impossible. The filial son “does not climb 
high, and does not tread on dangerous places.” There is 
therefore not a single filial son in the Alpine Club. 

In short, the family system is the negation of individualism 
itself, and it holds a man back, as the reins of the jockey hold 
back the dashing Arabian horse. Sometimes the jockey is 
good, and then he helps the horse to win the race, but some- 
times he is not so good. Sometimes it is not a jockey that is 
holding the horse back but merely a refuse cart. But then, 
Chinese society has no use for fine Arabian thoroughbreds, the 
best proof of which is that we have not produced them. We 
murder them, assassinate them, hoxmd them into the mountains, 
or send them into the asylum. We want only steady, plodding 
draught horses. And we get plenty of them. 

The Doctrine of Social Status, as Confucianism has been 
popularly called, is the social philosophy behind the family 
system. It is the doctrine that makes for social order in China. 
It is the principle of social structure and social control at the 
same time. The principal idea is status, or mingfen, which 
gives every man and woman a definite place in society. In 
conformity with the humanist ideal of “everything in its 
place,’® the social ideal is also that of “every man in his place.” 
Ming means “name,” a.nd fen means “duty.” Confucianism is 
actually known as mingchiao^ or “religion of names.” A name 
is a title that gives a man his definite status in any society and 



lyo MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

defines his relationships with others. Without a name^ or a 
definition of the soci^ relationship, a man would not know 
his fen^ or duties in that relationship, and hence would not 
know how to behave. The Confucian idea is that if every man 
knows his place and acts in accordance with his position, 
social order will be ensured. Of the ^^five cardinal human 
relationships,’^ four are occupied with the family. They are 
the relationships between king and subject, between father and 
son, between husband and wife, and those between brothers 
and between friends. The last relationship between friends 
may be identified with the family, because friends are those 
who can be included in the family circle — ‘Tamily friends.” The 
family then becomes the starting-point for all moral conduct. 

It is only fair to mention that Confucius never intended 
family consciousness to take the place of social or national 
consciousness and develop into a form of magnified selfishness 
— consequences which, with all his practical wisdom, he had 
not foreseen. The evils of the family system were already 
apparent in the times of Hanfeitse (end of the third century 
B.G.), in my opinion the greatest of China’s political thinkers 
of that period. Pictures of the political practices of his times 
contained in Hanfeitse’s works fit in perfectly for present-day 
China, such as the breaking down of the civil service system 
through nepotism and favouritism, robbing the nation to 
enrich the family, the erection of rich villas by politicians, the 
absence of any punishment for offending officials, the con- 
sequent absence of ‘‘public citizenship” (in Hanfeitse’s own 
words) and general lack of social consciousness. These were 
all pointed out by Hanfeitse, who advocated a government by 
law as the way out, and who had to drink hemlock, like 
Socrates. 

But, in theory at least, Confucius did not mean family 
consciousness to degenerate into a form of magnified selfishness 
at the cost of social integrity. He did, in his moral system, also 
allow for a certain amount of ultra-domestic kindness. He 
meant the moral training in the family as the basis for general 
moral training, and he planned that from the general moral 
training a society should emerge which would live happily 
and harmoniously together. Only in this sense can one imder- 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE I7I 

Stand the tremendous emphasis placed on ‘^filial piety/’ which 
is regarded as the ^^first of all virtues.” The Chinese word for 
^‘culture” or ^^religion/’ chiao^ is even derived from the word 
for “filial piety/’ hsiao^ being written with the sign for “filial 
piety” plus a causative radical (meaning “making filial”). So 
explains the Hsiaoking {Classic of Filial Piety): 

Confucius said; “The reason why the gentleman teaches 
filial piety is not because it is to be seen in the home and 
everyday life. Hfe teaches filial piety in order that man may 
respect all those who are fathers in the world. He teaches 
brotherliness in the yoimger brother, in order that man may 
respect all those who are elder brothers in the world. He 
teaches the duty of the subject, in order that man may respect 
all who are rulers in the world.” 

Again, Confucius said: 

“Those who love their parents dare not show hatred to 
others. Those who respect their parents, dare not show 
rudeness to others.” 

In this sense he could say to Tsengtse, his disciple: 

“Filial piety is the basis of virtue, and the origin of culture. 
Sit down again, and let me tell you. The body and hair and 
skin are received from the parents, and may not be injured: 
this is the beginning of filial piety. To do the right thing and 
walk according to the right morals, thus leaving a good name 
in posterity, in order to glorify one’s ancestors: this is the 
culmination of filial piety. Filial piety begins with serving 
one’s parents, leads to serving one’s king, and ends in 
establishing one’s character. . . 

The whole moral philosophy was based on the theory of 
imitation in society and the theory of habit in education. The 
method of sodal education was by establishing the right mental 
attitude from childhood, beginning naturally at home. There 
is nothing wrong in this. Its only weakness was the mixing of 



172 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

politics with morals. The consequences are fairly satisfactory 
for the family, but disastrous for the state. 

Seen as a social system, it was consistent. It firmly believed 
that a nation of good brothers and good friends should make 
a good nation. Yet, seen in modern eyes, Confucianism omitted 
out of the social relationships man’s social obligations toward 
the stranger, and great and catastrophic was the omission. 
Samaritan virtue was unknown and practically discouraged. 
Theoretically, it was provided for in the “doctrine of recipro- 
city.” Confucius said of the gentleman: “Wanting to be suc- 
cessful himself, he helps others to be successful; wanting to stand 
on his own feet, he helps others to stand on their feet.” But this 
relationship toward the “others” was not one of the five cardinal 
relationships, and not so clearly defined. The family, with its 
friends, became a walled castle, with the greatest communistic 
co-operation and mutual help within, but coldly indifferent to- 
ward, and fortified against, the world without. In the end, as it 
worked out, the family became a walled castle outside which 
everything is legitimate loot. 


III. Nepotism, Corruption and Manners 

Every family in China is really a communistic unit, with 
the principle of “do what you can and take what you need” 
guiding its functions. Mutual helpfulness is developed to a very 
high degree, encouraged by a sense of moral obligation and 
family honour. Sometimes a brother will cross the sea thousands 
of miles away to redeem the honour of a bankrupt brother. A 
well-placed and comparatively successfid man generally con- 
tributes the greater, if not the entire, share of the expenses of 
the whole household, and it is common practice, worthy of 
no special merit, for a man to send his nephews to school. A 
successful man, if he is an official, always gives the best jobs to 
his relatives, and if there are not ready jobs he can create 
sinecure ones. Thus sinecurism and nepotism developed, 
which, coupled with economic pressure, became an irresistible 
force, undermining, rather than being undermined, by any 
political reform movement. The force is so great that repeated 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 173 

efforts at reform, with the best of intentions, have proved 
unsuccessful. 

To look at it kindly, nepotism is no worse than favouritism 
of other sorts. A minister does not place only his nephews in 
the ministry, but he also has to place the nephews of other 
high oflBcials, if they are high enough, who write him letters 
of recommendation. Where is he going to place them, except 
in sinecure posts and “advisorships’’? The economic pressure 
and the pressure of overpopulation are so keen, and there are 
so many educated men who can write literary essays but who 
cannot repair a carburettor or set up a radio, that every new 
public organ or every oflScial assuming a new post is daily 
flooded with, literally, hundreds of letters of recommendation. 
It is quite natural, therefore, that charity should begin at home. 
For the family system must be taken as the Chinese traditional 
system of insurance against unemployment. Every family 
takes care of its own unemployed, and having taken care of its 
unemployed, its next best work is to find employment for them. 
It is better than charity because it teaches in the less lucky 
members a sense of independence, and the members so helped 
in turn help other members of the family. Besides, the 
minister who robs the nation to feed the family, either 
for the present or for the next three or four generations, 
by amassing half a million to ten million or more dollars,^ is 
only trying to glorify his ancestors and be a ^'good” man of the 
family. Graft, or ''squeeze,” may be a public vice, but is always 
a family virtue. As all Chinee are fairly "good” men, so, 
as Ku Hungming says, the commonest conjugation in Chinese 
grammar is that of the verb "to squeeze” : "/ squeeze^you squeeze^ 
he squeezes] we squeeze^ you squeeze^ they squeeze.^ It is a regular 
verb. 

And so, strange as it may seem, Chinese communism breeds 
Chinese individualism, and family-defined co-operation results 
in general kleptomania with an altruistic tinge to it. Klepto- 
mania can go safely with the greatest personal honesty and 

1 1 allow myself to mention only the dead as examples. General Wang 
Chanyiian, Governor of Hupeh, was worth about thirty millions; General Wu 
Chiinsheng, Governor of Heilungkiang, was even richer, holding vast tracts of 
realty that would be difficult to estimate. God alone knows how much T'ang 
Yulin of Jehol fame was worth. He is still alive. 



174 my country and my people 

even with philanthropy, which is nothing strange even in the 
West. The pillars of society, who in China are the most 
photographed men in the daily papers and who easily donate 
a hundred thousand dollars to a university or a civic hospital, 
are but returning the money they robbed from the people back 
to the people. In this, the East and the West are strangely 
alike. The difference is that in the West there is always the 
fear of exposure, whereas in the East it is taken for granted. 
The rampant corruption of the Harding administration did, 
after all, end up in one official being brought to justice. How- 
ever unfair that was on him, it did seem to say that graft is 
wrong. 

In China, though a man may be arrested for stealing a 
purse, he is not arrested for stealing the national treasury, not 
even when our priceless national treasures in the National 
Museum of Peiping are stolen by the responsible authorities 
and publicly exposed. For we have such a thing as the necessity 
of political corruption, which follows as a logical corollary of 
the theory of ‘‘government by gentlemen’’ (see page 196). 
Confucius told us to be governed by gentlemen, and we 
actually treat them like gentlemen, without budgets, reports 
of expenditures, legislative consent of the people or prison cells 
for official convicts. And the consequence is that their moral 
endowments do not quite equal the temptations put in their 
way, and thus many of them steal. 

The beauty of our democracy is that the money thus robbed 
or stolen always seeps back to the people, if not through a 
university, then through all the people who depend upon the 
official and serve him, down to the house servant. The servant 
who squeezes his master is but helping him to return the money 
to the people, and he does it with a clear conscience. The 
house servant has a domestic problem behind him, differing in 
magnitude but not in nature from the domestic problem of 
his master. 

Certain social characteristics arise from the family system, 
apart from nepotism and official corruption already mentioned. 
They may be summed up as the lack of social discipline. It 
defeats any form of social organization, as it defeats the civil 
service system through nepotism. It makes a man “sweep the 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE I75 

snow in front of his door, and not bother about the frost on his 
neighbour’s roof” This is not so bad. What is worse is that it 
makes a man throw his refuse outside his neighbour’s door. 

The best illustration is the so-called Chinese courtesy, a 
very misunderstood topic. Chinese courtesy cannot be defined, 
as Emerson has defined it, as “the happy way of doing things.” 
So much depends on who it is you are doing things with. Is 
he of your family or a friend of your family? The Chinese have 
just as much good manners toward people outside their families 
and friends as the Englishmen in the colonies have toward 
people outside their race. One Englishman told me that “the 
good thing is that we are not proud toward ourselves.” This 
seems quite sufficient for the Englishmen, since “ourselves” 
make the universe. The Chinese are not bad-mannered toward 
their friends and acquaintances, but beyond that limit the 
Chinese as a social being is positively hostile toward his neigh- 
bour, be he a fellow-passenger in a street car or a neighbour 
at the theatre-ticket office. 

I have seen on a rainy day at a bus station in the inland a 
fellow-passenger who, in the mad scramble for seats, found 
himself occupying the driver’s seat, and who steadfastly re- 
fused to give it up against the entreaty of the station officials. A 
bit of “social consciousness” might have told him that without 
the driver no one in the bus could get home, but this spark of 
social consciousness was lacking. If one analyses still jfurther, 
was he to blame? Why was there only one bus for about eighty 
passengers? The local militarist had commandeered the others 
for transportation purposes. Where, then, was the social con- 
sciousness of the militarist? Where system fails, and where men 
are forced into a mad scramble, all stranded on the road thirty 
miles away from home on a rainy day and all anxious to get 
home, what was the occupant of the driver’s seat to expect if 
he gave it up? The case is therefore typical: it shows the mal- 
adjustment between the natural rural courtesy of the farmers 
and the age of speed, the political chaos which hastens in- 
dividual scramble, and the lack of a tradition, based on a new 
social consciousness, which must take time to grow up. 

This lack of social consciousness explains why all bus 
companies are losing money and why all mining companies 



176 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

have closed up. It goes on in an uninterrupted series from the 
library regulations to the law of the land. The great officials 
break the great laws, the small officials break the small laws, 
and the result is a total lack of social discipline and general 
disregard for social rules and regulations. 

The fact is, the family system stands midway between 
extreme individualism and the new sense of social conscious- 
ness which, in the West, includes the whole society. Chinese 
society is cut up into little family units, inside which exists the 
the greatest communistic co-operation, but between the units 
no real bond of unity exists, except the state. As China has 
stood practically alone and unchallenged, even this sense of 
state, or nationalism, has not been greatly developed. So 
family consciousness has taken the place of the social conscious- 
ness and national consciousness in the West. Some form of 
nationalism is developing, but no one need be alarmed. The 
“y^Uow peril” can come from Japan but not from China. 
Deep down in our instincts we want to die for our family, but 
we do not want to die for our state. None of us ever want to 
die for the world. The propaganda of the Japanese militarist 
clique that says a nation should aggrandize itself in order to 
bring ‘'peace and harmony” to Asia, or even to the world, can 
have no appeal to the Chinese. To such appeals we are 
strangely, superlatively, heathenishly callous. To such appeals, 
our only answer is, “What do you mean?” We will not save 
the world. Enough provocation there is in modern Chinese 
international relations to goad us and weld us into a national 
unity, but the surprising thing is how well we resist such 
influences and provocations. 

Viewing the nation as a whole, it may really seem as if we 
mean to carry along as we were before. Travellers in 1935 in 
Japan and China can observe the greatest possible contrast 
in this respect. Compare the Japanese, busy and bustling, 
reading a newspaper in the tram or in the train, with a dogged 
face and determined chin and a cloud of imminent national 
disaster hanging over his brow, determined that Japan must 
either smash the world or be smashed in the next great conflict, 
and preparing for its coming — and the Chinese in his long 
gown, as placid, as contented, as happy-go-lucky, as if nothing 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 177 

could ever shake him out of his dreams. You cannot go into 
^^’^^nese homes, eat in Chinese restaurants and walk about in 
hinese streets, and believe that a national or world disaster 
tf coming. The Chinese always say of themselves that their 
iation is like ‘‘a tray of loose sands,” each grain being, not an 
individual but a family. On the other hand, the Japanese 
ation is (grammatically one says the Chinese nation are, 
ut the Japanese nation is) welded together like a piece of 
ranite. Perhaps this is a good thing. The next world ex- 
_^iosion may blow up the granite, but can at best but disperse 
."iSie sands. The sands will remain sands. 


IV. Privilege and Equauty 

The Doctrine of Social Status, or the ideal of “every man in 
his place,” cuts through the idea of equality in a curious way, 
and it is important to see this point in order to imderstand the 
whole spirit of Chinese social behaviour, both good and bad. 
The humanist temper is one emphasizing distinctions of all 
kinds, distinctions between men and women (resulting in the 
seclusion of women, as we have seen), between ruling authority 
and subjects, and between the old and the young. Confucianism 
always imagined itself as a civilizing influence going about 
preaching these distinctions and establishing social order. It 
hoped to bind society together by a moral force, by teaching 
benevolence in the rulers and submission in the ruled, kindliness 
in the elders and respect for old age in the young, “friendliness” 
in the elder brother, and humility in the younger brother. 
Instead of social equality, the emphasis is rather on sharply 
defined differentiation, or stratified equality. For the Chinese 
word for the five cardinal relationships, lun^ means equality 
within its class. 

Such a society is not without its charms and graces. The 
respect for old age, for instance, is always something touching, 
and Professor A. E. Ross has noted that the old man in China 
is a most imposing figure, more dignified and good to look at 
than the old men in the West, who are made to feel in every 
way that they have passed the period of their usefulness and 



178 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

are now gratuitously fed by their children, as if they had not 
done their bit in bringing up the young in their prime of life! 
Or else, these old men of the West are continually shouting to 
people that they are still young in spirit, which of course 
makes them look ridiculous. No well-bred Chinese would 
gratuitously offend an old man, just as no well-bred Western 
gentleman would intentionally offend a lady. Some of that 
fine feeling is now gone, but a great part of it still remains in 
most Chinese families. That accounts for the poise and serenity 
of old age. China is the one country in which the old man is 
made to feel at ease. I am sure this general respect for old age 
is a thousand times better than all the old-age pensions in the 
world. 

On the other hand, this theory of differentiated status has 
brought about privilege, always charming to the privileged 
classes and, until recently, also to their admirers. While the 
respect for old age is unquestionably good, the respect for 
scholars and oflScialdom is both good and bad. The social 
acclaim of the ‘literary wrangler,” the first man in the im- 
perial examinations, was something to touch a mother’s heart, 
and many a maiden’s, too. There he was, mounted on a white 
horse, personally decorated by the Emperor, parading the 
streets as the first and cleverest scholar of the land, a veritable 
Prince Charming, for it was important, too, that the first 
scholar should look handsome. Such was the glory of being 
a distinguished scholar, and such was the glory of being a 
mandarin oflficial. Whenever he went out, a gong sounded 
announcing his coming, and yamen^ servants cleared the way, 
brushing the passers-by away like so much dirt. The yamen 
servants had ^ways been invested with part of their master’s 
power and glory. What though they accidentally maimed or 
killed a man or two! 

One cannot read old Chinese novels without coming upon 
such a scene. We do not call it power and glory; we call it 
^‘glowing fire and lapping flames,” glorious as a conflagration. 
The yamen servants’ only worry was that they might come 
across another train belonging to an oSicial of higher rank 
(for so works the Doctrine of Status), which would dampen 

^ Yamen i$ the headquarters of an o£6.cial. 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 179 

their “fire’’ a little, or that they might unknowingly kill or 
maim a man who belonged to that higher official’s household. 
Then they would cry, “I ought to die! I ought to die!” and 
actually they might be handed over to the higher official for 
whatever punishment that officieil deemed fit, including flogging 
and imprisonment, law or no law. 

Privilege of this sort was always inspiring and fascinating, 
and it is no wonder that modem officials, deprived of such 
outward glory, are unwilling to give it up. No one enjoying a 
privilege is not flattered by it or highly pleased with it. What 
a democratic come-down to call these modern officials “public 
servants!” They may use the phrase themselves in circular 
telegrams, but in their hearts they hate it. In 1934 there still 
occurred a case in which the chauffeur of a high government 
official disobeyed the traffic signal, crossed the road at a busy 
comer, and pulling out a revolver, shot off the thumb of the 
policeman who tried to stop him. Such was the glowing flame 
of his official fire. Yes, privilege was a good thing, and it is 
still glowing to-day. 

Privilege is therefore the antithesis of equality and the 
officials are the natural enemies of democracy. Whenever the 
officials are willing to curtail their class privilege, enjoy less 
freedom of action and answer an impeachment by appearing 
at a law court, China can be transformed overnight into a 
true democracy. But not until then. For if the people are free, 
where will be the freedom of the officials and mflitarists? If 
the people have the inviolability of person, where will be the 
fireedom of the militarists to arrest editors, close down the 
press and chop off men’s heads to cure their headache?^ 
Whenever the people are disrespectful to their officials or the 
young speak against their parents, we exclaim ^^Fan liao! Fan 
liaoP^ meaning that heaven and earth are overturned and the 
world has come to an end. 

The notion is very deep-rooted in the Chinese mind, and 
the evil is not confined to the officials, but spreads like the 
roots of a banyan tree miles off. Like the banyan tree, too, it 
spreads its cool shade over all who come under it. We Chinese 

1 As did General Chang Yi in my native town, Changchow, FnMen. I can 
give his name because he is dead. 



l8o MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

do not fight the banyan tree; we try to come under its shade. 
We do not impeach officials, like the Americans, or burn down 
the houses of the rich, like the Bolsheviks. We try to become 
their doorkeepers and enjoy their official umbrage. 


V. Social Glasses 

It seems clear, then, that actually there are only two social 
classes in China, the yamen class who enjoyed extraterritorial 
rights without consular jurisdiction long before the Europeans 
came to China, and the non-yamen class who pay the taxes 
and obey the law. To put it a little more cruelly, there are 
only two classes in China, the top-dog and the under-dog, 
who take turns. With their cheerful fatalism, the Chinese 
bear this scheme of things quite nobly and well. There are no 
established social classes in China, but only different families, 
which go up and dovm according to the vicissitudes of fortune. 
There are the lucky yamen families, and there are the less 
lucky families, whose sons do not preside in the yamens or 
whose daughters do not marry into the yamendom. And no 
families stand quite alone. Through marriage, or through 
acquaintance, there is hardly a family in China that cannot 
find a distant cousin who knows the teacher of the third son 
of Mr. Chang whose sister-in-law is the sister of a certain 
bureaucrat’s wife, which relationship is of extreme value when 
it comes to lawsuits. 

Yamen families may indeed well be compared again to 
banyan trees whose roots cross and recross each other and 
spread fanwise, and Chinese society to a banyan tree on a hill. 
Through a process of adjustment, they all struggle for a place 
in the sim, and they live at peace with each other. Some stand 
at a better vantage point than others, and they all protect 
each other — ^^oiBBcials protect officials,” as the current Chinese 
saying goes. The common people are the soil which nourishes 
these trees and gives them sustenance and makes them grow. 
As Mencius said, when he was defending the distinction 
between the gentleman and the common man, ^‘Without the 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE l8l 

gentleman there would be no one to rule the common people, 
and without the common people there would be no one to 
feed the gentleman.” Once the King of Gh’i asked Confucius 
about government, and on being told of the Doctrine of Social 
Status, the King exclaimed, ‘‘Well said, sir! If the king is not 
kingly, and the subjects do not fulfil their duties as subjects 
. . , how can I be fed^ though there be plenty of rice in the country?^^ 
So between the sunshine from above and the sap of the earth 
from below, the trees prosper. Some trees are more vigorous 
than others and draw more sap from the earth, and people who 
sit under their shade and admire their green leaves do not 
know that it is the sap that does it. 

The officials know it, however. Candidates for magistracy 
sitting and awaiting their chances in Peking know by heart 
and constant conversation which district is “fat” and which 
district is “thin.” They, too, with a literary flourish, speak of 
the national revenue as “the people’s fat and the people’s 
marrow.” The process of extraction of human fat and human 
marrow is a science comparable in diversity and ingenuity to 
organic chemistry. A good chemist can convert beetroot into 
sugar, and a really good one can draw nitrogen and make 
fertilizer out of air. The Chinese officialdom have nothing to 
lose by comparison. 

The redeeming feature is the absence of caste or aristocracy 
in China, The yamen class is not a permanent hereditary 
institution, like the landed aristocracy in Europe, and it is 
impossible to identify it permanently with any group of in- 
dividuals. There has been no family in China which can 
boast that its ancestors have never worked for the last five 
hundred years, like some aristocrats in France or the Habs- 
burgs in Austria, except Confucius’s family, which has not 
worked for the last two thousand years. The descendants of the 
Manchu army, which conquered China in 1644, may be truly 
said not to have worked for the last three himdred years, and 
now with the fall of the Manchu Dynasty they still refuse to 
work — that is, most of them. They are a most interesting case 
for socialists to study, as showing what can happen to a class 
of people fed by the nation for three centuries, for they are the 
true “leisure class” in China. But they are the exception. 



i 82 my country and my people 

There is no hard-and-fast line of distinction between the yamen 
and the non-yamen class. 

The family, rather than any hereditary class, is the social 
unit. These families go up and down kaleidoscopically. Every 
man past forty has seen with his own eyes how some families 
rise and others go down. Social democracy is maintained in 
the West or in China, not by any constitution but, as someone 
has pointed out, by our prodigal sons. Of these prodigal sons, 
there are plenty in China who, through their prodigality, 
make the rise of a permanent rich class impossible, standing 
thus, as it were, as the bulwark of democracy. The civil 
examinations made it possible always for ambitious and able 
men to rise from the bottom of the scale. From such examina- 
tions none were excluded except the sons of beggars or 
prostitutes. And education was not so costly that only sons 
of the higher classes could afford it. While learning was a 
privilege of the talented, it was never the privilege of the rich. 
No one was known to be seriously handicapped in his academic 
career by his poverty. In this sense, it may be said that there 
was equality of opportunity for all. 

The Chinese divide society into four classes, in the following 
order of importance: the scholars, the farmers, the artisans and 
the merchants. In a primitive agricultural society in which 
China always remained, the spirit was essentially democratic. 
There was no class antagonism, as there was no need. The 
intercourse between these classes, except, as we have mentioned, 
the yamen class, was not marred by '‘class feeling” and snobbery. 
In the best social tradition of China, a rich merchant or a high 
official may ask a woodcutter to have a cup of tea and chat 
quite sociably with him, perhaps with less condescension than 
the inmates of an English manor house speak to the farm-hand.^ 
The farmers, the artisans and the merchants, being all part 
of the sap of the earth, are humble, quiet, self-respecting citizens. 
The fanners are placed, by Confucian theory, at the head of 
these three classes, for the rice-conscious Chinese always know 
where every grain comes from, and they are grateful. They, 
together with the merchants and artisans, all look up to the 

1 A striking example of this is contained in the sketch called "Democracy” 
in Somerset Maugham's On a Chimss Screen, 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 183 

scholars as a class entided to privilege and extra courtesy, and 
with the difiiculty of acquiring a knowledge of the Chinese 
written characters, this respect comes from the bottom of their 
hearts. 


VI. The Male Triad 

But do the scholars deserve this respect? Mental labour is 
decidedly higher than manual labour, and the inequality 
reaUy seems quite natural. The conquest of the animal king- 
dom by mankind was based on man’s greater cerebral develop- 
ment. Through his mental development, he justified his 
supremacy over the animal world. But, of course, one can ask 
the question whether, yrom the animals^ point of view, man has the 
right to take away the mountain forests from the lions and 
tigers and rob the buffalo of the prairie. The dog might agree, 
but the wolf might think otherwise. Man justified it merely by 
his greater cimning, and the scholar in China did the same. 
He alone knew the treasure of knowledge, he alone knew 
history and the law, and he alone knew how to murder a man 
by the dexterous use of one word in a legal brief. Learning 
is so complicated that respect for it is natural. He and his 
kind form the so-called ^'gentry” class in China. To continue 
the forest analogy, the gentry are the parasites, which have a 
way of reaching the top of the highest tree without great 
effort, and all Chinese banyans are surrounded by such para- 
sites. In other words, they can reach the trees and whisper a 
kind word for the sap of the earth, incidentally pocketing a 
commission. More than that, they often undertake from the 
tree the duty of draining the sap of the earth. 

This is the so-called “tax monopoly system” which is ruining 
both the financial condition of the people and the national 
revenue itself. These tax monopolies are the feeding groimd of 
the local gentry, an evil which has been greatly aggravated 
since the establishment of the Republic. Actually, a tax 
monopoly which is bought out from the city government at 
thirty thousand dollars a year yields two to three times its 
price. The sap goes to nourish the parasites. The pity of it is 
that the people are duped without any benefit to die govern- 



184 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

ment or to society, except the fattening of the parasites’ own 
families. 

But the parasites are so thickly entrenched in their local 
ground that any new regime almost has to work with them 
and through them. They parcel out the butchery tax, the 
prostitution tax and the gambling tax, and from what they 
invest in, they naturally expect to get the greatest returns. 
This idea of the ‘'greatest returns” proves ruinous to the people. 
There is no limit to their rapacity, for no definition of “the 
greatest” is possible. And with their professional knowledge, 
they can invent new taxes. Every new official has a few of 
these gentry friends officially or unofficially connected with 
his yamen. They may come for a visit, and between the 
sippings of tea may often utter a sigh: “Ah! come to think of 
it, there are at least 15,000 troughs for feeding pigs in every 
hsien^ and 150,000 troughs in every district of ten hsien, A 
dollar per trough would net in a very handsome sum, very 
handsome indeed.” Down goes another gulp of fine lungching 
tea. When there are many such sighs and flashes of insight, 
the official really begins to learn the art of extracting human 
fat and human marrow. The official is profoundly grateful 
and feels half ashamed of his own ignorance. He is maturing 
in “the ways of the world.” Soon after the pig-trough tax, the 
gentry scholar discovers the coffin tax, and after that the 
wedding-sedan tax, ... 

I have always coimected these scholar gentry in my thoughts 
with the divinely beautiful white cranes in Chinese paintings. 
They are so pure, so white, so imearthly. That is why they 
stand for the symbol of the Taoist recluse, and fairies go up to 
heaven on their backs. One would think they were fed on 
ether. But they are fed on frogs and earthworms. What if 
their plumes are so white and smooth and their steps so stately! 
The trouble is they must feed on something. The gentry, 
who know all the good things of life, must live, and in order to 
live, they must have money. 

Their love of money forces them to work with the rich, and 
here we come to the real inequality in China, economic in- 
equality. In Chinese towns there was always a male Triad: 
the magistrate, the gentry and the local rich, besides the female 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 185 

Triad of Face, Fate and Favour. The male Triad more or 
less always worked together. A good magistrate had to fight 
his way out and directly reach the people over the shoulders 
of the other two. There were many such magistrates. But 
they had a hard time, and these people had always to attend 
to the admi n istration personally themselves without the usual 
paraphernalia of the whole yamendom. Such a one, for 
instance, was Yuan Mei, and there were many others. They 
were good, but gratuitously good, to the people. 

In modem times a fourth potentate has come into being in 
the countryside, and instead of a Triad we have in some parts 
of the country four monsters working hand in hand together: 
the magistrate, the gentry, the local rich and the bandit. 
Sometimes the local rich get out, and there remain only three. 
No wonder the fat of the land is miming thin. No wonder that 
Communism grows. Communism, without Russian doctrine, 
could not find a more ideal growing ground. The movement 
of Communism, with its mthless stand against the gentry and 
the local rich, and constantly growing and feeding upon the 
dislocated population, now homeless, fadess, and marrowless 
and being called ^‘bandits,” must be looked upon as an 
economic rebellion of the people, quite apart from the accident 
of Russian theories. And all this because Confucius, in out- 
lining his social scheme of five human relationships, forgot to 
define the relationship between man and the stranger. 

Communism has so changed the scheme of social life that a 
peasant may go directiy to the magistrate and, resting his bam- 
boo pole on the yamen wall, talk to the magistrate as man to 
man. This has become so deep-rooted that in territories 
recovered from the communistic area, the officials can no 
longer keep to their yamen style, but must speak to the peasant, 
as the communist officials used to speak to him. Certain things 
axe still wrong, grievously wrong. The Kuomintang had on 
its literary programme the lightening of the tenants’ contri- 
bution of crops to the landlords, the establishment of rural 
banks, and the forbidding of usury, etc., etc. And some day it 
is going to be forced to do all this. The Shanghai pawnshops 
still proclaim their generosity with the words in big characters 
outside their doors: ‘^monthly interest eighteen per cent!” 



i86 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


VIL The Female Triad 

With the Doctrine of Social Status and the conception of 
stratified equality, certain laws of Chinese social behaviour 
arise as a result. They are the three immutable laws of the 
Chinese universe, more eternal than a Roman Catholic dogma, 
and more authoritative than the Constitution of the United 
States. They are, in fact, the three Muses ruling over China, 
rather than General Chiang Kaishek or Wang Chingwei. 
Their names are Face, Fate and Favour. These three sisters 
have always ruled China, and are ruling China still. The 
only revolution that is real and that is worth while is a revo- 
lution against this female triad. The trouble is that these 
three women are so human and so charming. They corrupt 
our priests, flatter our rulers, protect the powerful, seduce the 
rich, hypnotize the poor, bribe the ambitious and demoralize 
the revolutionary camp. They paralyse justice, render in- 
effective all paper constitutions, scorn at democracy, contemn 
the law, make a laughing stock of the people’s rights, violate 
all traffic rules and club regulations, and ride roughshod over 
the people’s home gardens. If they were tyrants, or if they 
were ugly, like the Furies, their reign might not endure so 
long; but their voices are soft, their ways are gentle, their feet 
tread noiselessly over the law courts, and their fingers move 
silently, expertly, putting the machinery of justice out of order 
while they caress the judge’s cheeks. Yes, it is immeeisurably 
comfortable to worship in the shrine of these pagan women. 
For that reason, their reign will last in China for some time 
yet. 

In order to understand the conception of favour, it is necessary 
to know the beautiful simplicity of life in which the Chinese 
have lived. The Chinese ideal of society has always been one 
in which the ' ‘administration is simple and the punishments 
are light.” A personal, human touch always colours the 
Chinese conception of law and government. IThe Chinese are 
invariably suspicious of laws and lawyers, and of a highly 
mechanized society. Their ideal is one in which people living 
in the heyday of peace and leisure retain a good measure of 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 187 

primitive simplicity. In this atmosphere emerged favour, and 
in this atmosphere emerged that most beautiful of ancient 
Chinese characteristics, gratitude, the counterpart of favour. 
Of this gratitude, the common people of China, especially the 
agricultural population, have still a large “bellyful.” A farmer 
who has been recipient of an act of favour remembers it for 
life and will probably worship you for life in the form of an 
inscribed wooden tablet in his private household, or serve you 
loyally “through fire and water.” True, the people are left 
without constitutional protection at the mercy of the district 
magistrate. But if the magistrate is kind, kindness is all the 
more keenly appreciated because it is something gratuitous. 
There have been thousands of cases in which the village people 
surrounded the departing magistrate’s sedan-chair, kneeling 
on the ground with tears of gratitude in their eyes. This is the 
best demonstration of Chinese gratitude, and of Chinese 
official favour. For the people know it as favour and not as 
justice. 

In such an atmosphere originated favour, which came from 
a personal relationship between the man in power and the 
man in need of protection. It can, however, take the place of 
justice, and it often does so. When a Chinese is arrested, 
perhaps wrongly, the natural tendency of his relatives is not to 
seek legal protection and fight it out in a law court, but to find 
someone who knows the magistrate personally and intercede 
for his “favour.” With the high regard for personal relation- 
ships and the importance attached to “face” in China, the 
man who intercedes is always successful if his “face” is “big” 
enough. It is always easy, and infinitely less costly than a 
protracted lawsuit. In this way, a social inequality arises 
between the powerful, the rich and the well-connected, and 
the poor who are not so fortunately circumstanced. 

Some years ago there occurred in Anhui the arrest and im- 
prisonment of two college professors for the ludicrously in- 
significant offence of some incautious remarks, and the relatives 
had no better way than to go to the provincial capital and 
plead with the military chief of the province for “favour.” 
On the other hand, certain young men in the same province, 
connected with a powerful political party, were arrested in 



l88 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

flagrante delicto for gambling, and after being released, went to 
the capital and demanded the dismissal of the offending police. 
An opium house in a city on the Yangtse was searched by the 
police and its store of opium confiscated two years ago, but on 
the telephone message of an influential local person, the Bureau 
of Public Safety not only had to apologize for the slip in manners, 
but had to send the opium back with police guards. A certain 
dentist who had taken out a tooth for a powerful general and 
was therefore invested for life with part of the latter’s personal 
glory, was once asked for on the phone by the operator of a 
certain ministry by his personal name and surname and not by 
surname and official tide. He went to the ministry, asked for 
the operator and slapped his face in the presence of the 
ministry staff. In July, 1934, a woman in Wuchang was 
arrested for sleeping outdoors with short trousers, because of 
the heat, and died consequendy in imprisonment a few days 
afterwards. The woman, it turned out, was the wife of an 
official, and the offending policeman was shot. And so on, ad 
infinitum. Revenge is sweet. But as there are women who are 
not wives of officials but who may nevertheless be arrested, 
the consequence is not always sweet revenge. Confucianism 
stands for this, because as early as the Book of Rites there 
occurred the phrase, ‘‘Courtesy is not extended to the com- 
moners, and punishment is not served up to the lords.” 

Favour was then part and parcel of the Doctrine of Socia! 
Status, and the logical consequence of the Confucian ideals;# 
a “personal,” “parental” government by “gendemen.” And 
was Laotse not right in saying: “Sages no dead, robbers no 
end”? Confucius was childishly naive in thinking there were 
enough gendemen in a country to go round ruling the people, 
and apparently he miscalculated. In an idyllically simple 
stage of life this might work, but in the modem age of aero- 
planes and motor cars it must fail, and it has failed 
miserably. 

The redeeming feature, as has been said, is the absence of 
caste and aristocracy in China. And this brings us to Fate. 
The feature that makes such apparent social inequality 
endurable is that no people are trodden down permanendy, 
and the oppressor and oppressed take turns. We Chinese 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 189 

believe that every dog has his day, and “heaven’s way always 
goes round.” If a man has ability, steadiness and ambition, 
he can always rise and climb high. Who can tell? A bean- 
curd seller’s daughter may suddenly catch the eyes of a power- 
ful official or a colonel, or his son may by a strange accident 
become the doorkeeper of a city magistrate. Or a butcher’s 
son-in-law, who may be a poor middle-aged village school- 
master, may sudderdy pass the official examinations and, as 
we are told in the novel Julinwaishih^ one gentry scholar from 
the city asks him to come and stay in his mansion, another 
comes to “exchange certificates” of sworn brotherhood with 
him, a third rich merchant presents him with rolls of silk and 
bags of silver, and the city magistrate himself sends him two 
maid-servants and a cook to relieve his peasant wife of her 
kitchen labour. The butcher moves into the new mansion 
in the city, happy of heart, forgetting how he had always 
bullied his son-in-law, says he has always believed in him, and 
is now ready to lay down the butcher’s knife and be fed by 
him for life. When this happens, his day has come. We envy 
him but we do not call it unfair. For we call it fate, or his 
luck. 

Fatalism is not only a Chinese mental habit, it is part of the 
conscious Gonfucian tradition. So closely related is this belief in 
fate connected with the Doctrine of Social Status that we have 
such current phrases as “keep your own status and resign your- 
self to heaven’s will,” and “let heaven and fate have their 
way.” Confucius, in relating his own spiritual progress, said 
that at fifty he “knew heaven’s will.” At sixty “nothing he 
heard could disturb him.” This doctrine of fatalism is a great 
source of personal strength and contentment, and accoxmts 
for the placidity of Chinese souls. As no one has all the luck 
all the time, and as good luck cannot apparently come to aU, 
one is willing to submit to this inequality as something perfectly 
natural. There is always a chance for ambitious and able men 
to rise through the imperial examinations. And if, through 
luck or through ability, a man rises from the unprivileged to 
the privileged class, then it is his turn. Once in the privileged 
class, he is in love with it; a change of psychology takes place 
along with the change in elevation. He begins to love social 



igo MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

inequaUty and all its privileges, and falls in love with it, as 
Ramsay MacDonald feU in love with Downing Street. The 
latter went up the steps of No. lo, sniffed its air and felt happy. 
Practically, this turn-about-face has been noticed in every 
modern successful Chinese revolutionist. He clamps down his 
iron heel on the freedom of the press more energetically tVig n 
the militarist he denounced while in his revolutionary appren- 
ticeship. 

For he has now got a “big face.” He stands above the law 
and the constitution, not to speak of traffic rules and museum 
regulations. That face is psychological and not physiological. 
Interesting as the Chinese physiological face is, the psycho- 
logical face makes a still more fascinating study. It is not a 
face that can be washed or shaved, but a face that can be 
"panted” and “lost” and “fought for” and “presented as a 
gift.” Here we arrive at the most curious point of Chinese 
social psychology. Abstract and intangible, it is yet the most 
delicate standard by which Chinese social intercourse is 
regulated. 

But it is easier to give an example of Chinese face than to 
define it. The official in the metropolis, for instance, who can 
drive at sixty miles an hour, while the traffic regulations allow 
only thirty-five, is gaining a lot of face. If his car hits a man, 
and when the policeman comes round he silently draws a card 
from his pocket-book, smiles graciously and sails away, thep 
he is gaining greater face still. If, however, the policeman is 
unwilling to give him face and pretends not to know him, the 
official will begin “talking mandarin” by asking the police- 
man “if he knows his father” and signalling to the chauffeur 
to go off, and thus his face waxes still greater. And if the 
incorrigible pohceman insists on taking the chauffeur to the 
station, but the official telephones to the chief of police, who 
immediately releases the chauffeur and orders the dismissal of 
the little policeman who did not “know his father,” then the 
face of the official becomes truly beatific. 

Face cannot be translated or defined. It is like honour and 
is not honour. It cannot be purchased with money, and gives 
a man or a woman a material pride. It is hollow and is what 
men fight for and what many women die for. It is invisible and 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE I9I 

yet by definition exists by being shown to the public. It exists 
in the ether and yet can be heard, and sounds eminently 
respectable and solid. It is amenable, not to reason but to 
social convention. It protracts lawsuits, breaks up family 
fortunes, causes murders and suicides, and yet it often makes a 
man out of a renegade who has been insulted by his fellow- 
townsmen, and it is prized above all earthly possessions. It 
is more powerful than fate and favour, and more respected 
than the constitution. It often decides a military victory or 
defeat,, and can demolish a whole government ministry. It is 
that hollow thing which men in China live by. 

To confuse face with Western “honour” is to make a grievous 
error. Chinese girls used to die for face, if their bodies had been 
accidentally exposed to a man, as some Western women were 
once willing to drown themselves for having an illegitimate 
child. And yet in the West, the man who is slapped on the 
cheek and does not offer a challenge for a duel is losing “honour” 
but not losing face. On the other hand, the ugly son of a 
taofai^ who goes to a sing-song girfs house, is insulted and 
returns with a company of police to order the arrest of the 
sing-song girl and the closing of the house, is getting “face,” 
but we would hardly say he is guarding his “honour.” 

Battles have been lost and empires have been sacrificed 
Because the generals were bargaining for some honorific titles 
or some inoffensive way of accepting defeat rather than pro- 
ceeding according to military tactics. Hot controversies have 
raged and protracted legal battles have been fought, in which 
the wise arbiter knows that all the time nothing really prevents 
the parties from coming together except a nice way of getting 
out of it, or probably the proper wording of an apology. A 
general split a political party and changed the whole comse of 
a revolution because he was publicly insulted by a fellow-worker. 
Men and women are willing to drudge all the su mm er in order 
to keep going a funeral celebration appropriate to the sta n ding 
or face of the family, and old families on the decline are willing 
to go bankrupt and live in debt for life for the same reason. 

Not to give a man face is the utmost height of rudeness and 
is like throwing down a gauntlet to him in the West. Many 
officials attend between three and four dinners in a night and 



1Q2 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

injure all their chances of a normal digestive system rather 
than make one of their intended hosts lose face. Many defeated 
generals who ought to be beheaded or rot in prison are sent 
on tours of ‘'industrial” or ‘"educational inspection’" to Europe as 
a price for their surrender, which saves their face and which 
explains the periodic recrudescence of civil wars in China. A 
whole government ministry was abolished four or five years 
ago in order to avoid the word “disnussal” and save the face 
of the minister who ought to have been told in plain terms to 
get out and perhaps get a jail sentence besides. (A dismissal 
would make the minister lose face, because there was no change 
of cabinet at the time.) Human, all too human, this face of 
ours. And yet, it is the goad of ambition and can overcome 
the Chinese love of money. It has caused a schoolteacher in- 
finite misery because the foreign principal insisted on increasing 
his salary from eighteen dollars to nineteen dollars. He would 
rather take eighteen dollars or twenty or die than be called a 
nineteen-dollar man. A father-in-law, by refusing to ask his 
unworthy son-in-law to stay for supper and thus making him 
lose face, is probably only wanting to make a man out of him, 
and very possibly that solitary walk on his way back home 
may be the beginning of his making good. 

It is safer on the whole, however, to travel with people who 
have no face than with people who have too much of it. Two 
soldiers on a Yangtse steamer insisted on having the face to 
go into a forbidden room containing cases of sulphur and sit 
on these cases and throw cigarette ends about, against the 
entreaty of the compradore. Eventually, the steamer was 
blown up, and the soldiers succeeded in saving their face but 
not their charred carcasses. This had nothing to do with 
ignorance or education. An educated Chinese general about 
five years ago thought his face entitled him to overweight 
baggage when going up in an aeroplane at Shanghai, despite 
the remonstrations and pleadings of the pilot. Moreover, he 
wanted to have extra face before his friends who came to see 
him off, and ordered the pilot to circle round. As he was a 
powerful militarist the extra face was “granted.” But the pilot 
became nervous, the plane refused to go up evenly, it hit 
against a tree, and eventually the general paid for his face by 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE I93 

losing one of his legs. Anybody who thinks face is good enough 
to compensate for overweight luggage in an aeroplane ought 
to lose his leg and be thankful for it. 

So it seems that while it is impossible to define face, it is 
nevertheless certain that until everybody loses his face in this 
country, China will not become a truly democratic country. 
The people have not much face, anyway. The question is, 
when will the officials be willing to lose theirs? When face is 
lost at the public courts, then we will have safe traffic. When 
face is lost at the law courts, then we will have justice. And 
when face is lost in the ministries, and the government by face 
gives way to a government by law, then we will have a true 
republic. 


VIII. The Village System 

In the absence of the social mind, how is philanthropy possible 
in China, and what forms have collective enterprises for public 
good taken? The answer is to be found in the village system, 
which is the family raised to a higher exponent. The pastoral 
background which developed the personal system of runni ng 
National Museums also developed a village consciousness, 
similar to the growing civic consciousness of a New Yorker or 
a Chicagoan. From the love of the family there grew a love 
for the clan, and from the love for the clan there developed an 
attachment for the land where one was bom. Thus a sentiment 
arose which may be called "‘provincialism,” in Chinese called 
funghsiang kuannkn^ or “the idea of being from the same 
native place.” This provincialism binds the people of the 
same village, or the same district, or the same province to- 
gether, and is responsible for the existence of district schools, 
public grainage, merchant guilds, orphanages, and other 
public foundations. Fundamentally, they spring from the 
family psychology and do not depart from the family pattem. 
It is the family mind enlarged so as to make some measure of 
civic co-operation possible. 

In every big city on the coast or inland there are inevitably 
a number of provincial or district guilds, like the Anhui Guilds 



194 COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the Mngpo Guilds etc. Whenever there are rich merchants^ 
these guilds are always liberally endowed. The ChangcKiian 
Guild of my native town has in Shanghai a property valued at 
over a million dollars. It keeps a school in which our native 
children may study free of tuition. The guilds may always serve 
as hotels, like the Western club-houses, being very inexpensive, 
and sometimes have a peculiar system of paying for board, 
besides providing the travelling merchant with all the facilities 
of local guidance. In the Manchu days, when scholars from 
all over the country had to go to Peking for the triennial 
examinations, there was not a province or district that did not 
have its own guild-house in the capital. If one could not find 
one’s district guild, one could always find a provincial guild. 
In these guilds the scholars and candidates for magistracies 
stayed, sometimes with their families, as in permanent hotels. 
Certain provinces, like Shansi and Anhui, spread a network 
of such guilds to enable their merchants to carry on trade all 
over the country. 

Back at home, this village spirit enables the people to develop 
a system of communal government, the only real government 
in China, the '‘central government” being known only by its 
harassing yamen tax-collectors and its soldiers who always 
raise a hullabaloo on their official descents into the country. 
The central government really taxed the people very little in 
the good old imperial days, and from the villager’s point of 
view, “the heaven was high and the emperor far away.” 
Conscription for military service was unknown. When the 
country was at peace there was neither war nor banditry, and 
only the riffraff of society ever thought of becoming soldiers. 
When the country was not at peace, it was in any case difficult 
to distinguish between the soldiers of the government and the 
bandits of the country, a distinction which is totally unneces- 
sary. In fact, no such distinction is logically tenable. As 
regards law and justice, the people always fought shy of the 
law court, ninety-five per cent of village disputes being settled 
by the village elders. To be involved in a lawsuit was ipso 
facto ignominious Good old people often boasted that they 
had never entered an official yamen or law court in their 
lifetimes. So of the three most important functions of the 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 195 

central government, tax collection, maintaining peace and 
keeping justice, very little came to bother the people. Accord- 
ing to the Chinese political philosophy, that government 
governs best which governs least. It was even so always. The 
real government of China may be described as a village social- 
ism. And what applies to the village holds true in the general 
spirit for the town also. 

The so-called village or town local government is invisible. 
It has no visible body of authority like the mayor or coun- 
cillors. It is governed really morally by the elders by 
virtue of their great age, and by the gentry by virtue of 
their knowledge of law and history. Fundamentally, it is 
governed by custom and usage, the unwritten law. In case 
of disputes, the elders or patriarchs are invited to decide the 
right and wrong of the matter, according, as we have pointed 
out, not to reason alone but to “human nature and eternal 
reason” combined. When there are no lawyers it is always 
easy to find out, especially among parties well known to each 
other and living under the same social tradition, who is right 
and who is wrong. The absence of lawyers makes justice 
possible, and when there is justice there is peace in the human 
heart. The village gentry are as a class whiter than the town 
gentry, although their parasitic nature is economically deter- 
mined. There are good and upright scholars who do not make 
it their profession to handle lawsuits, and who by their 
reputation for character and learning share the general respect 
of the villagers with the elders. Under these elders and scholars 
the people carry on. When disputes cannot be settled in this 
manner, as in cases of crime and division of property, or 
when two parties are determined to fight for face, then they 
go to the yamen. But it is only when both parties are prepared 
to ruin themselves, for they avoid the yamen like a plague. 

The Chinese people can always govern themselves, have 
always governed themselves. If the thing called “government 
can leave them alone, they are always willing to let the govern- 
ment alone. Give the people ten years of anarchy, when foe 
word “government” will never be heard, and they wiU^ live 
peacefully together, they will prosper, they will cultivate 
deserts and turn them into orchards, they will make wares 



igS MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

and sell them all over the country, and they will open up the 
hidden treasures of the earth on their own enterprise and 
initiative. Opium will cease to be grown because no one 
forces them to, and will become extinct automatically. And 
they will have saved enough to provide against all temporary 
floods and famines. Let there be no tax bureau with the sign- 
board, “Enriching the nation and fattening the people,” and 
the nation will grow rich and the people will grow fat. 

IX. “Government by Gentlemen” 

The most striking characteristic in our political life as a 
nation is the absence of a constitution and of the idea of civil 
rights. This is possible only because of a different social and 
political philosophy, which mixes morals with politics and is a 
philosophy of moral harmony rather than a philosophy of 
force. A “constitution” presupposes that our rulers might be 
crooks who might abuse their power and violate our “rights,” 
which we use the constitution as a weapon to defend. The 
Chinese conception of government is the direct opposite of this 
supposition. It is known as a “parental government” or 
“government by gentlemen,” who are supposed to look after 
the people’s interests as parents look after their children’s 
interests, and to whom we give a free hand and in whom we 
place an unbounded confidence. In these people’s hands we 
place millions without asking for a report of expenditure and to 
these people we give unlimited official power without the 
thought of safeguarding ourselves. We treat them like gentle- 
men. 

There could be no finer, juster and more acute criticism of 
this government by gentlemen than what was written twenty- 
one hundred years ago by Hanfeitse, a philosopher of the 
“legalist school” {fachia) who lived about three centuries after 
Confucius. As the last and also the greatest of this school, he 
stood for a government by law, instead of a government by 
persons. His analysis of the evils of this personal government 
is so acute, and his pictures of Chinese political life of his day 
are so strikingly appropriate for modem China, that he wbxild 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE I97 

not alter a word of it if he were speaking to us to-day. 

According to Hanfeitse, the beginning of poKtical wisdom 
lies in rejecting all moral platitudes and in shunning ail efforts 
at moral reforms. I believe the sooner we stop talking about 
moral reforms of the people, the sooner shall we be able to give 
China a clean government. The fact that so many people per- 
sist in talking of moral reforms as a solution for political evils 
is a sign of the puerility of their thinking and their inability to 
grasp the political problems as political problems. They should 
see that we have been talking moral platitudes continuously for 
the last two thousand years without improving the country 
morally or giving it a cleaner and better government. They 
should see that, if moralizations would do any good, China 
should be a paradise of saints and angels to-day. I suspect that 
the reason why moral reform talks are so popular, especially 
with our officials, is because they know that such talks do 
nobody any harm. Probably ail our moral uplifters have a bad 
conscience. I find that General Chang Tsungch’ang and 
others who want to restore Confucianism and uplift others’ 
morals generally keep from five to fifteen wives and were 
adepts at seducing young girls. We say, “Benevolence is a 
good thing,” and they echo, “True, benevolence is a good 
thing,” and no harm is done anybody. On the other hand, I do 
not hear any of our oflGicials talking about government by 
law, because the people would reply, “All right, we will 
prosecute you by law and send you to prison.” The earlier, 
therefore, we stop talking about morality and switch over to the 
subject of the strict enforcement of law, the sooner we make it 
impossible for these officials to dodge the issue and pretend to 
read the Confucian classics in the foreign settlements. 

Briefly, we may say, therefore, that there were two opposing 
conceptions of government in Hanfeitse’s times, as well as in 
our own times: the Confucian conception of government by 
gentlemen and the legaUst conception of government by law 
rather than by persons. The Confucian system assumes every 
ruler to be a gendeman and proceeds to treat him like a gende- 
man. The legalist system assumes every ruler to be a crook and 
proceeds to make provisions in the political system to prevent 
him from carrying out his crooked intentions. Obviously the 



igB MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

first is the traditional view, and the second the Western view, 
and also the view of Hanfeitse, As Hanfeitse says, we should 
not expect people to be good, but we should make it impossible 
for them to be bad. That is the moral basis of the legalist 
philosophy. In other words, instead of expecting our rulers to 
be gentlemen and to walk in the path of righteousness, we 
should assume them to be potential prison-inmates and devise 
ways and means to prevent these potential convicts from 
robbing the people and selling the country. One can readily 
see that the latter system is more Hkely to be effective as a 
check for political corruption than waiting for a change of 
hearts in these gentlemen. 

In China, however, we have been doing the reverse. Instead 
of assuming them to be potential crooks, as we should have 
done long ago, we assume them to be gentlemen. In the good 
old Confucian way, we expect them to be benevolent rulers 
and to love the people as their own sons. We expect them to be 
honest, and we say, ‘^Go ahead, spend what you like out of the 
public funds, and we will not demand a public budget or a 
rendering of public accounts.” We say to our mihtarists, ‘‘Go 
ahead, we trust you will love the people so much that we will 
let you tax us according to your conscience.” And we say to 
our diplomats, “Go ahead, we have implicit faith in your 
patriotism, and will allow you to contract any and every sort 
of international treaty without having to submit it to us for 
approval.” And to all our officials we say, “In case you turn 
out to be gentlemen, we will erect stone pailou in your honour, 
but in case you turn out to be crooks, we will not put you in 
prison.” Never in other countries was there such a gentle- 
manly treatment of officials. Now Hanfeitse says this is all 
wrong: it is taking too many chances with their moral endow- 
ments. If Hanfeitse were living to-day he would advise us to 
assume them to be crooks and say to them, “We will not exhort 
you to the path of righteousness and we will not erect stone 
pailou in your honour in case you turn out to be gentlemen, but 
in case you turn out to be crooks, we will send you to prison.” 
That seems to be a sounder and speedier way of putting an 
end to our political corruption. 

I quote here a passage from Hanfeitse, in a rather free 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE I99 

rendering. He says: “You can expect generally about ten 
honest men in a country (which is a pretty good average). 
But there are, on the other hand, probably a hundred oflBces. 
As a result, you have more official positions than honest men 
to fill them, so that you have ten honest men and ninety crooks 
to fill all of the positions. Hence there will be more likelihood 
of a general misrule rather than a good government. Therefore, 
the wise king believes in a system and not in personal talents, 
in a method and not in personal honesty,’’ Hanfeitse denied 
that a “parental government” would ever work, because, he 
pointed out, even parents do not always succeed in governing 
their children, and it would be unreasonable to expect rulers 
to love the people more than parents love their children. 
Hanfeitse coldly and humorously asked how many disciples 
Confucius got with all his tremendous benevolence and 
righteousness, and was not the fact that even Confucius could 
obtain only seventy disciples among hundreds and thousands 
. of people a clear proof of the futility of virtue? Was it not 
unreasonable to expect all rulers to walk in virtue like Con- 
fucius and all their subjects to love virtue like his seventy 
disciples? There is a kind of pleasing cynicism, dry humour, 
and sound sense in those words. 

Hanfeitse’s description of the iUs of his country agrees to a 
fault with those of present-day China. So similar was the 
character of the officials and people of those days that, in 
reading him, we might easily forget that he was not depicting 
modem China. He traced the corruption of the officials and 
the apathy of the people of his day to the lack of legal protec- 
tion, to the fault of the system. Instead of moralizing about it, 
he preached that it was the system of government and the lack 
of public legal protection that was at fault. He said all troubles 
lay in the lack of a “public or just law.” He hated the Con- 
fiicianists of his day and called them a pack of gabbling fools, 
which might be fittingly applied to so many of our “long-gown 
patriots” to-day. He said of the officials of that time that they 
were encouraged in their cormption because there was no 
punishment for them. He said in these very words: “Although 
their national territory is sacrificed, their families have got 
rich. If they succeed, they will be powerful, and if they fail. 



200 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

they can retire in wealth and comfort’" — ^words that might 
have been written for a great part of the villadom that is living 
in retirement in Dairen or the Shanghai Settlements. He said 
that because of the lack of a system, ‘^people were promoted 
according to their party connections, and were obliged to 
divert their attention to social entertainments rather than the 
fulfilment of the law.” How true these words are to-day, only 
officials and official candidates themselves know. 

There was an important passage which contained the very 
interesting phrase kungmin (‘‘public citizen”) and which tried 
to account for the general apathy and indifference of the 
people toward their national affairs. He said in effect: “Now 
you send people to fight. They will be killed whether they go 
forward or turn back. That is dangerous for them. You ask 
them to forsake their own private pursuits and join the military 
service, and when they are poor, those above do not pay them 
any attention. Of course, they remain poor. Now who likes 
to be in danger and poverty? Naturally, they will try to keep 
away from you. Therefore they will mind their own business 
and will be interested in building their own houses and will 
try to avoid war. By avoiding war, they will have security. 
But by practising graft and bribery, they can become rich and 
secure themselves for life. Now who would not like to be 
wealthy and to live in peace? And how can you prevent them 
from seeking peace and wealth? This is the reason why there are so 
few public citizens and so many private individuals.^^ 

It is still true to-day that we have too few public citizens and 
too many private individuals and the reason is to be found in 
the lack of adequate legal protection. It has nothing to do with 
morals. The evil lies in the system. When it is too dangerous 
for a man to be too public-spirited, it is natural that he should 
take an apathetic attitude toward national affairs, and when 
there is no punishment for greedy and corrupt officials, it is too 
much to ask of human nature that they shoiild not be corrupt. 

Hence Hanfeitse believed in the establishment of an “inviol- 
able law which should apply to both the ruler and the ruled 
alike,” He believed that the law should be supreme, that all 
people should be equal before the law, and that this law should 
be applied in place of personal preferences and connections. 



SOCIAL AND POLITICAL LIFE 


201 


Here we have not only a conception of equality that is almost 
Western, but we have a type of thinking that strikes me as 
being most un-Ghinese. It is strange that, in contrast to the 
Gonfiicianist dictum that “courtesy should not be extended to 
the commoners and punishment should not be served up to the 
lords,"’ we have here a legalist who says that we should have a 
“law that does not fawn upon the mighty, and statutes that 
should be applied rigidly, so that wherever the law applies, 
the clever submit and the powerful will not protest, the 
nobility will not be exempted from punishment and rewards 
will not go over the heads of the humble.” Hanfeitse con- 
ceived of a law “before which the high and the low, the clever 
ones and the stupid ones shall stand equal.” He pushed the 
idea of a mechanistic rule of the law so far that he believed it 
would not be necessary to have wise and able rulers — a 
mechanistic notion which is totally un-Ghinese. 

Hence the Taoistic element in his system that “the king 
should do nothing.” The king should do nothing, because he 
saw the kings could not do anything anyway, as the average 
run of kings goes, and there should be a machinery of govern- 
ment running so justly and perfectly that it does not matter 
whether we have good or bad rulers. The king, therefore, 
becomes a figurehead, as in the modem constitutional govern- 
ment, The English people have a king to lay foundation stones 
and christen ships and knight people, but it is entirely unimpor- 
tant to the nation whether they have a good or bad king, an 
intelligent king or a comparatively mediocre king. The 
system should run of itself. That in essence is the theory of 
do-nothingism concerning the king, as interpreted by Hanfeitse 
and practised also with great success in England. 

It is a queer irony of fate that the good old schoolteacher 
Gonfiicius should ever be called a political thinker, and that 
his moral molly-coddle stuff should ever be honoured with the 
name of a “political” theory. The idea of a government by 
virtue and by benevolent rulers is so fantastic that it cannot 
deceive a college sophomore. One might just as well regulate 
motor traffic on Broadway by trusting to the drivers’ spon- 
taneous courtesy, instead of by a system of red and green lights. 
And any thinking student of Ghinese history should have 



202 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

observed that the Chinese government d, la Confucius with its 
tremendous moralizing has always been one of the most corrupt 
the world has ever seen. The reason is not that Chinese 
ojBficials are any more corrupt than Western ones. The plain, 
inexorable political and historical truth is that when you 
treat officials like gendemen, as we have been doing in China, 
one-tenth of them will be gendemen and nine-tenths of them 
will turn out to be crooks; but when you treat them like crooks, 
with prisons and threats of prisons, as they do in the West, 
considerably less than one-tenth succeed in being crooks and 
fully nine-tenths of them succeed in pretending that they are 
gendemen. As a result, you have at least the semblance of a 
clean government. That semblance is worth having. That is 
what China should have done long ago, and that was Han- 
feitse’s advice two thousand years ago, before he was made to 
quaff poison. 

What China needs, then, is not more morals but more 
prisons for politicians. It is futile to talk of establishing a clean 
and irreproachable government when unclean and reproach- 
able officials can safely book a first-class berth for Yokohama 
or Seattle. What China needs is neither benevolence, nor 
righteousness, nor honour, but simple justice, or the courage to 
shoot those officials who are neither benevolent, nor righteous, 
nor honourable. The only way to keep the officials clean is to 
threaten to shoot them when they are caught. Officials who 
feel hurt at my legalist view of human nature should reflect 
a litde whether they would be willing to invest money in a 
stock company run stricdy on the Confucian-gendemanly 
principle, with no stockholders’ meeting, no accounting, no 
auditing and no possibility of arresting an absconding 
treasurer or manager. The Chinese government was run 
stricdy on such a gendemanly basis. What improvements the 
present government has made are due to the influence of 
Westerners who have the audacity to ask for accounts from 
their rulers, without being afraid of implying a slight on their 
gendemanly honour. But until that change is complete, the 
Chinese government will always be like an unbusiness-like 
company, always profitable for the manager and staff but 
disheartening for the stockholders who are the conamon people. 



Chapter Seven 

LITERARY LIFE 


1. A Distcnction 

THE Chinese make a distinction between literature that 
instructs and literature that pleases, or literature that is “the 
vehicle of truth” and literature that is “the expression of 
emotion.” The distinction is easy to see: the former is objective 
and expository, while the latter is subjective and lyrical. They 
all pretend that the former is of greater value than the latter, 
because it improves the people’s minds and uplifts society’s 
morals. From this point of view, they look down upon novels 
and dramas as “little arts, unworthy to enter the Hall of Great 
Literature.” The only exception is poetry, which they not only 
do not despise but cultivate and honour more intensively and 
generally than in the West. As a matter of fact, all of them read 
novels and dramas on the sly, and the official who writes only 
of benevolence and righteousness in his essays will be found, 
in private conversations, to be quite famihar with the heroes 
and heroines of Chinp’inmei (Gold- Vase-Plum), the pornographic 
novel par excellence, or of P’inkm Paochien, an equally porno- 
graphic homosexual novel. 

The reason for this is not far to seek. The “literature that 
instructs” is on the whole of such low, second-rate quality, so 
full of moral platitudes and naive reasoning, and the scope of 
ideas is so hemmed in by the fear of heresy, that the only 
Chinese literature that is readable is literature in the Western 
sense, including the novels, dramas and poetry, i.e., literature 
of the imagination rather than literature of ideas. Scholars 
who were not economists wrote about taxation, literary men 
who did not know how to handle a sickle wrote about agricul- 
ture, and politicians who were not engineers wrote about “A 
Plan for Huangho Conservancy” (an extremely popular topic). 

205 



204 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

In the sphere of ideas the scholars were, as we say in Chinese, 
only turning somersaults in the Confucian school and looking 
for cow’s hair in the courts of the Confucian temple. All of 
them denounced Chuangtse, the greatest writer of libels 
against Confucianism, and all of them read Chuangtse. Some 
of them even dared to play with Buddhist classics, but their 
cult of Buddhism was dilettantish and their vegetarianism 
half-hearted. The fear of heresy hung over their heads like the 
sword of Damocles, and the fear of heresy could only mean the 
fear of originality. Literature which lives only on spontaneity 
was harnessed with the classical tradition of ideas. The ‘‘free- 
play of the mind” was extremely limited in scope, and the 
'somersaults in the Confucian school,” however skilful they 
might be, were nothing but somersaults within the Confucian 
precincts. 

After all, a nation of scholars could not discuss benevolence 
and righteousness for two thousand five hundred years without 
repeating themselves. Actually, an essay which won the first 
place in the triennial imperial examinations, when rendered 
into plain English, would stagger English readers by its puerility 
and childishness. The gigantic literary feat produced by the 
gigantic brain-power gives one the impression of the antics of 
a flea circus. A writer could therefore be original only in the 
sphere of novels and dramas, where one could be comfortably 
oneself, and where imagination could be creative. 

As a matter of fact, all literature that is worth while, that is 
the expression of man’s soul, is lyrical in origin. This is true 
even in the literature of ideas: only ideas that come straight 
from man’s heart will survive. Edward Young made this point 
clear as far back as 1795 in his Conjectures on Original Composition. 
Gh’in Shengt’an, a distinguished critic of the seventeenth 
century, said repeatedly in his letters: "What is poetry but a 
voice of the heart? It can be found in women’s and children’s 
hearts, and it comes to you by morning and by night.” The 
origin of literature is really as simple as that, in spite of aU the 
rhetorical and compositional technique that professors oi 
literature try to encumber it with. Gh’in Shengt’an also says; 
"The ancient people were not compelled to say anything, bul 
they suddenly said something purely of their own accord. The) 



LITERARY LIFE 


205 

spoke sometimes of events, and sometimes of their own feelings, 
and having finished what they had to say, they took leave and 
departed.” The difference between literature and mere 
writing is only that some say it beautifully and others do not, 
and they who say it more beautifully than others survive. 

The lyrical origin of literature makes it possible for us to 
regard literature as a reflection of man's soul, and to regard a 
nation’s literature as the reflection of man’s spirit in that nation. 
For if life may be compared to a large city, a man’s writing 
may be regarded as the window in his garret from which he 
views the city. In reading a man’s writing we but wish to 
look at life from his garret window and obtain a view of life 
as the writer sees it. The stars, the clouds, the mountain peaks 
lining the horizon, and the alleyways and housetops in the 
city are aU the same, but that garret view of the city is indivi- 
dualistic and peculiarly his own. In reviewing a nation’s 
literature we are therefore but trying to get a glimpse of life 
as the best minds of that nation see it and as they express it 
through their own peculiar medium. 


II. Language and Thought 

The accident of the Chinese literary medium, or the Chinese 
language, has largely determined the peculiar development of 
Chinese literature. By comparison with the European lan- 
guages it is possible to trace how much of the peculiarities of 
Chinee thought and literature are due simply to their possession 
of a so-called monosyllabic language. The fact that the 
Chinese spoke in syllables like chingy chongy chang was appalling 
in consequences. This monosyUabism determined the character 
of the Chinese writing, and the character of the Chinese 
writing brought about the continuity of the literary heritage 
and therefore even influenced the conservatism of Chinese 
thought. It was further responsible for the development of 
a literary language quite distinct from the spoken language. 
This, in turn, made learning difficult and necessarily the 
privilege of a limited class. Finally, the monosyUabism directly 



i206 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

influenced the development of certain peculiarities of Chinese 
literary style. 

Every nation has developed a writing most suitable to its 
language. Europe did not develop a writing on pictorial 
principles because the phonetic structure of Indo-Germanic 
words, with its comparative profusion of consonants and 
infinitely variable combinations, required an analytic alphabet, 
and would make the representation of these words by picto- 
graphs hopelessly inadequate. For no system of ideographs 
could be used alone, and it was found, as in the case of Chinese, 
necessary to supplement the pictorial principle by the phonetic 
principle before it could have any important development. 
These elementary pictographs were then used in combinations 
purely for their phonetic value, and actually nine-tenths of 
the over forty thousand characters in Chinese dictionaries are 
built on the principle of phonetic combination, with about 
thirteen hundred ideographs as phonetic signs. With a mono- 
syllabic language, such as the Chinese, which has only about 
four hundred syllabic combinations (not counting the tones) 
like ching^ chough change this could suffice. But with a Germanic 
language the invention of a new symbol for every new 
sound-combination like Schlacht and Kraft in German or 
scratched^ scraped^ splash and scalpel in English would be obviously 
an impossible task. The Chinese language failed to develop 
a phonetic script in the Western sense because the phonetic use 
of ideographic symbols could suffice. Had the Chinese been 
speaking a language with words like the German Schlacht and 
Kraft or the English scratched and scalpel^ they would have, by 
sheer necessity, invented a phonetic script long ago. 

The perfect adjustment between the Chinese monosyllabic 
language and the written characters can be easily made plain. 
The language is characterized by a great scarcity of syllabic 
forms and consequently a great number of homonyms or words 
of the same sound. The sound pao can mean over a dozen 
things: ‘‘a package,^’ *^to carry,” *‘well-filled in stomach,” 
*‘a bubble,” etc. Since the pictorial principle was limited in 
application to concrete things or actions, and was even then 
necessarily complicated, the original word for ‘^package” was 
used for its purely phonetic value and ‘‘borrowed” to denote 



LITERARY LIFE 


207 

Other words of the same sound. What happened then was that 
there was a great deal of confusion, and before the script was 
more or less fixed in the Han Dynasty, we had a great number 
of such ‘‘borrowed’’ words indicating different things. Neces- 
sity forced the Chinese to add a sign (called “radical”) to 
indicate the class of ideas which this particular pao was intended 
to refer to. 

The use of phonetic symbols was not too exact, and hence we 
have the following words, pronounced pao or p'^ao in different 
tones in modern Chinese, all written with the original 
“package”-sign ( @ ), but each taking a class-sign or radical, as 
in: m II it II H fa ca 1; S 

Thus pao plus a “hand” radical means to carry^ plus a “foot” 
means to run^ plus “clothes” means a gown^ plus an “eat” means 
wdl-jilledin stomachy plus “water” means a bubble^ plus “fire” means 
firecrackers, plus a “fish” means the name oi a fish, plus “flesh” 
means the womb, plus “stone” means a cannon, plus “mouth” 
means to roar, plus “grass” means a fiower bud, plus “rain” 
means hail, plus a “knife” means to scrape. This was the adjust- 
ment to solve the problem of homonyms. 

But suppose the problem was not homonyms, suppose the 
Chinese language had words like the English scraped, scratched, 
and scalpel, or suppose the English people started out with a 
basic phonetic picture for sc-a~p, they would have been forced 
equally by necessity to distinguish between the sounds cape 
and scape, or between scape and scrape, or between scrape and 
scraped, or between scrape and scratch, and the result could not 
have been anyt h ing except an alphabet with signs to denote 
s, r, ed{t),p, ch, etc. Had the Chinee done this they too would 
have had an alphabet, and consequently have had a more 
widespread literacy. 

Given, therefore, the monosyllabic character of the Chinese 
language, it was almost inevitable that pictorial characters 
were used. This fact alone has profoundly changed the charac- 
ter and position of learning in China. By their very nature the 
Chinese characters are not subject to changes in the spoken 
tongue. The same symbol could be read in diflerent ways in 
diflferent dialects or even languages, as the sign of the Christian 
cross could be pronounced cross in English and croix in French. 



2o8 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


This has a very close bearing on the unity of Chinese culture 
throughout the old empire. More important than that, the 
use of the characters made the reading of the Gonfucian classics 
possible after the lapse of a thousand years. The idea that 
the Confucian classics could have become unreadable in the 
sixth century of our era is extremely intriguing, and one is 
tempted to wonder what would have happened to the 
tremendous respect for Confucianism had that happened. 

Actually, the Chinese characters underwent a great revolu- 
tion at the time of the burning of books by Gh"in Shihhuang, 
and to-day Gonfucian scholars are split into two camps, one 
believing in the classic texts in “ancient scripts’* which are 
supposed to have escaped destruction in the walls of Confucius’s 
own home, and the other believing in the “modern scripts” 
which were handed down orally by old scholars who had 
committed the classic texts to memory, and survived the short- 
lived Ch’in Dynasty. Nevertheless, from that time onward 
(213 B.G.), there is a continuity of writing, with a com- 
paratively unimportant evolution of forms, which must largely 
account for the hypnotic power these classics have exercised 
over the Chinese minds. 

What is true of the early texts of Confucianism is true of the 
entire literary heritage, especially that coming after the Han 
days. A Chinese schoolboy who can read an author of a hun- 
dred years ago coxild, by that very training, read works of the 
thirteenth, tenth or second century, almost in the same sense 
that a modern artist can appreciate the Venus de Mho with 
the same ease as he appreciates Rodin. Would the influence of 
the classic heritage have been so powerful, and would the 
Chinese mind have been so conservative and worshipful of the 
past, had that past been less readily understood? One wonders. 

Yet in another way the use of the characters helped in the 
creation of a fairly stable literary language, quite different 
from the spoken language, and rather too difficult for the 
average scholar to master. Whereas a phonetic script would; 
follow naturally the changes and idioms of a living language, 
the language of written symbols, by being less dependent upon 
sounds, achieved a greater freedom in idiom and grammar. It 
did not have to obey the laws of any spoken language, and, in 



LITERARY LIFE 209 

time, it had its laws of structure and a store of idioms which 
accumulated by literary accidents from the works of diJBferent 
dynasties. Thus it came to have an independent reality of its 
own, subject more or less to literary fashions. 

As time went on, this discrepancy between the literary 
language and the living language of the age became greater 
and greater, until to-day the study of the ancient language is, 
in point of psychological diflSculties involved, exactly similar to 
the learning of a foreign tongue for the Chinese people. The 
laws of ordinary sentence-structure differ between the literary 
and the spoken language, so that one cannot write in the 
ancient language by merely substituting certain ancient words 
for the modem words. A simple phrase like three ounces silver 
should be syntactically changed into silver three ounces^ and 
whereas the modem Chinese say I never saw (zV), the ancient 
idiom requires the constmction I never it saw^ the accusative 
object being regularly placed before the verb in the case of 
negative verbs. Modem Chinese schoolboys are therefore apt 
to commit the same idiomatic blunders as when English school- 
boys say vois vous in learning French. Just as in learning a 
foreign language a very extensive acquaintance with that 
language is necessary before one can really master the ordinary 
idioms, so in the practice of writing ancient Chinese, years of 
oral repetition and reading of masterpieces (minimum ten 
years) are required before one can write fairly presentable 
ancient Chinese. And just as very few people succeed in really 
mastering a foreign language, so in reality very few Ch i n ese 
scholars succeed in writing really idiomatic ancient Chinese. 
Actually, there are only three or four Chinese to-day who can 
write ‘‘idiomatic” Chinese of the classic Chou Dynasty. Most 
of us have to put up with that bookish sort of language which 
foreigners command easily enough, but which lacks the trae 
flavour of the mother tongue. 

The use of the Chinese characters made this development 
possible. Moreover, the independence of character from sound 
greatly accelerated its monosyllabic quality. Actually^ bi- 
syllabic words in the spoken language can be represented by a 
monosyllabic character, because the character itself by its 
composition makes the meaning already quite clear. Thus, in 



210 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the Spoken language we require a bisyllabic loo hu (“old tiger”) 
to distinguish it aurally from a dozen other hu's, but in writing, 
the character hu alone is sufficient. The hterary language is 
therefore much more monosyllabic than the spoken language, 
since its basis is visual and not aural. 

From this extreme monosyllabism then developed an extreme 
terseness of style, which cannot be imitated in the spoken 
language without the risk of unintelligibility, but which is the 
characteristic beauty of Chinese literature. Thus in riTiinq 
have a metre of exactly seven syllables to each line as the 
standard metre, saying probably as much as two lines of English 
blank verse, a feat which is inconceivable in the 
language, or in any spoken language. Whether in prose or in 
verse, this economy of words produced a style where each word 
or syllable is carefully weighed to its finest nuance in sound- 
value and is surcharged, as it were, with meaning. As with 
meticulous poets, Chinese writers are careful in the use of a 
syllable. A real mastery of this clean-cut style therefore mpans 
extreme mastery in the choice of words. Hence arose a literary 
tradition for mincing words which later became a social 
tradition and finally a mental habit of the Chinese. 

The consequent difficulty of this literary craft caused the 
limitation of literacy in China, which needs no elaboration. 
The limitation of literacy in turn changed the whole organiza- 
tion of Chinese society and the whole complexion of Chinese 
cultmre, and one sometimes wonders whether the Chinese 
people as a whole would be so docile and so respectful to their 
superiors had they spoken an inflexional language and con- 
sequently used an alphabetic language. I sometimes feel that, 
had the Chinese managed to retain a few more final or initial 
consonants in their language, not only would they have shaken 
the authority of Confucius to its foundations, but very possibly 
would have long ago tom down the political structure and, 
with the general spread of knowledge and given the millen- 
niums of leisure, would have forged ahead in other lines and 
given the world a few more inventions like printing and 
gunpowder which would have likewise affected the history of 
human civilization on this planet. 



LITERARY LIFE 


2II 


III, Scholarship 

Before we pass on to the non-classical literature, or literature 
of the imagination, achieved by obscure or unknown writers 
who broke through the classical tradition and wrote out of the 
gladness of their hearts and for the sheer delight of creation — 
in other words, before we pass on to those novels and dramas 
which constitute literature par excellence in the Western sense, 
it is perhaps proper to examine the content of classical literature, 
the qualities of Chinese scholarship, and the life and education 
of that mass of educated men who feed on the people, moralize 
a lot and create nothing. What do these scholars write and what 
is their mental occupation? 

China is a land of scholars, where scholars are the ruling 
class, and in times of peace, at least, the worship of scholarship 
has always been sedulously cultivated. TMs worship of 
scholarship has taken the form of a popular superstition that 
no paper bearing writing should be thrown about or used for 
indecent purposes, but should be collected and burned at 
schools or temples. In times of war the story is slightly different, 
for soldiers used to go into a scholar’s house and either bum 
old rare editions as fuel, or blow their noses with them, or 
commit them to a general conflagration. Yet so stupendous was 
the literary activity of the nation that the more books the 
soldiers burned, the bigger the collections of books became. 

In the Sui Dynasty, around the year 600, the imperial 
dynasty already counted 370,000 volumes. In the T’ang 
Dynasty the imperial collection numbered 208,000 volumes. 
In the year 1005, in the Sung Dynasty, the first encyclopaedia, 
consisting of 1,000 volumes, was compiled. The next great 
imperial collection, the Yunglo Tatien, collected under Emperor 
Yunglo (1403-1424), consisted of 22,877 books, in 11,995 
volumes, of selected rare ancient works. In the Manchu 
Dynasty, the most statesmanlike act of Emperor Gh’ienlung 
was to make a thorough overhauling of extant books for the 
ostensible purpose of preserving them, but with the equally 
important purpose of destroying works that savoured of 
dissatisfaction with the alien regime, and he succeeded in 



212 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

collecting 36,275 volumes which were preserved originally in 
seven sets in the well-known Ssuk^u Ch!uanshu, But he also 
succeeded in ordering the complete or partial destruction of 
about 2,000 books, involving about a score of cases of dismissal 
from office, imprisonment, flogging or death of the authors, 
sometimes including the destruction of their ancestral temples 
and the selling of their family as slaves — all this because of the 
misuse of a word. The figures of both the Tunglo Tatien and the 
Ssick'u Ck'iianshu represented a selection of works worthy of 
preservation according to the orthodox standards. There was 
a slightly higher number of works which received honourable 
mention, with a brief description in the catalogue, but these 
were not collected in the Ssiik'u Ch^iianshu for perpetuation. 
These, of course, did not include the truly creative works like All 
Men Are Brothers or the Red Chamber Dream^ although they 
included a tremendous amount of pichi^ or “notebooks, on 
odds and ends, from historical researches to notes on tea-leaves 
and famous springs and sketches of foxes, water spirits and 
chaste widows, which were the delight of the Chinese scholars. 

What, then, did these books talk about? A review of the 
orthodox classification system of Chinese libraries, handed 
down from the Ssuk'u CKiianshu^ would be of interest. Chinese 
books are classified into the four big divisions: {a) Classics, 
{b) History, {c) Philosophy, and {d) Collected Works or 
Literature. The Classics Division includes the classics and 
classic philology, which waste the greater part of Chinese 
scholars’ time. The ffistory Divison includes dynastic his- 
tories, special histories, biography, miscellaneous records, 
geography (including travel sketches and local history of 
districts or famous mountains), civil service system, laws and 
statutes, bibliography, and historical criticism. The Philosophy 
Division originally borrowed its name from the schools of 
philosophy of the Chou Dynasty, but was made to include all 
the special arts and sciences of China (as in the “Faculty of 
Philosophy^’ of a Western university), including noilitary science, 
agnculture, medicine, astronomy, astrology, necromancy, 
fortune-telling, boxings calligraphy, painting, music, house 
decoration, cuisine, botany, biology, Confucianism, Buddhism, 
Taoism, reference works, and a host of the above-mentioned 



LITERARY LIFE 


213 

‘^notebooks,” containing a wilderness of promiscuous, un- 
shifted, unscrutinized and unclassified data on all phenomena 
of the universe, \vith a preference for the weird and the super- 
natural. In popular bookshops the novels are also included in 
this di\ision. The Collected Works Di\Tsion may be called the 
Literature Dhision, because it includes the collected works of 
scholars, literary criticism, and special collections of poetry and 
drama. 

The array of sciences is more imposing than an examination 
of their contents would show. Actually, there are no special 
sciences in China, outside the serious sciences of classic philology 
and history, which are truly branches of exact classified know- 
ledge, and which provide fields for painstaking research. 
Astronomy, apart from the works of Jesuit disciples, is very 
near astrology, and zoology and botany are very near cuisine^ 
since so many of the animals and fruits and vegetables are 
eatable. Medicine usually occupies the same shelf in ordinary 
book stores as necromancy and fortune-telling. Psychology, 
sociology, engineering, and political economy are hidden all 
over among the notebooks, and writers whose books get into 
the classification of botany and zoology in the Philosophy 
Division or ^Miscellaneous Records in the History Division 
achieve that distinction by the more specialized nature of their 
notes, but, with the exception of oustanding works, do not 
essentially depart from the notebooks in the Literature Division 
in spirit and technique. 

Chinese scholars have briefly three lines in which to develop 
their peculiar genius; real scholarly research, political candi- 
dacy, and literature in the classical sense, and we may accord- 
ingly classify Chinese scholars into the three types, scholars, 
the gentry, and writers. The training for the scholar and the 
candidate of official examinations is so different that there must 
be an early choice between the two. There was a chujeuy or 
candidate of the second rank, who had never heard of 
Kungyangchuan^ one of the '^Thirteen Confiician Classics’* and 
there were many learned scholars who for their life could not 
have written an “eight-legged essay” to pass the official 
examinations. 

But the spirit of old Chinese scholarship was admirable. The 



214 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

best of the scholars corresponded to the scientist type of Europe^ 
with the same scientific devotion to learning and capacity for 
drudgery, although often without the scientific technique, and 
their works lacked the Western lucidity of style and cogent 
reasoning. For old Chinese scholarship meant immense 
drudgery, a prodigious learning and an almost superhuman 
memory, made possible only by a lifelong devotion to learning. 
There were scholars who could repeat Ssuma Ch’ien’s volu- 
minous History from beginning to end, for without an index 
system man had to trust to his store of memory. In fact, 
easily located knowledge which could be found in any encyclo- 
paedia was rather looked down upon, and good scholars did 
not need encyclopaedias. We had many such walking encyclo- 
paedias in flesh and blood. And after all, when it came to 
dig^g up original sources, it did not matter in the old scheme 
of life whether one found them at a moment’s notice or after 
wasting a whole day. The English nobility used to spend a 
whole day on a fox-hunt, and did not enjoy it the less, and 
Chinese scholars found the same excitement in ‘^scenting” their 
game, the same disappointment after finding a red herring 
and the same joy when they had tracked the fox to its lair. In 
this spirit, monumental works were produced by individual 
scholars, like the encyclopaedias of Ma Tuanlin or Cheng 
Ch’iao, or the etymological dictionary of Chu Ghiinsheng, or 
the Shuowen Commentary of Tuan Yiits’ai. In the beginning of 
the Manchu Period, the scholar Ku Yenwu, in his research on 
Chinese cultural geography, used to travel with three carts of 
books, and whenever he found discrepancies in material 
evidences or contradicting stories from old people from whom 
he collected first-hand data, he would check them in his books. 

Such quest for knowledge was in spirit no different from the 
labours of Western scientists. There were certain fields in 
Chinese learning which offered an opportunity for painstaking 
and disciplined research. Such fields were, for instance, the 
evolution of the Chinese script {shuowen) ^ the history of Chinese 
sounds, the emendation of ancient texts, the restoration of lost 
texts from quotations, the study of ancient rites, customs, 
ceremonials, architecture and costumes, the verification of 
names of animals and fishes in the classics, the study of bronze. 



LITERARY LIFE 


215 

Stone and bone inscriptions, the study of foreign names in the 
history of the Mongol Dynasty. Others had as their hobbies the 
ancient non-Confucian philosophers, the Yuan dramas, the 
Book of Changes {Tiking), Sung philosophy {lihsueh)^ history of 
Chinese painting, ancient coins, Chinese Turkestan, the 
Mongol dialects, etc. So much depended on the teachers with 
whom they came in contact and on the fashion of academic 
studies of the period. In the middle of the Manchu regime, 
when Chinese philologic scholarship had reached its summit, 
there were collected in the HuangcKing Chingchieh and Shu 
HuangcKing Chingchieh about four hundred works running to 
over a thousand volumes, consisting of scholarly treatises on 
extremely specialized topics, very similar in nature and spirit 
to the doctorate dissertations of modern universities, only with 
a maturer scholarship and involving much longer years of 
labour, one of which I know took the author thirty years. 


IV. The College 

But true scientists are as rare in China as they are in the 
West. On the other hand, we have as many political candidates 
as there are Ph.D.s in America, men who need a rank to earn 
their own bread and other people’s respect. Perhaps the 
Chinese ofl&cial candidates are a greater pest to society than 
the American Ph.D.s. Both of them pass an examination which 
means no more or less than that the candidate has done a 
certain amount of drudgery with a mediocre intelligence, 
both of them want the rank for purely commercial reasons, 
and both of them have received an education which totally 
unfits them for anything except the handling of books and the 
peddling of knowledge. 

The Chinese Ph.D.s, however, had a distinctly ofiicial favour 
about them. There were among them real talents, who took 
these degrees for no earthly reason except the fun and ease of 
taking them, and who climbed very high, reaching the last 
stage of imperial examinations, becoming a chinshih or hanlin. 
These went out as magistrates or became officials in the capital. 
The great majority of them sunk in the first or second grades. 



2i6 my country and my people 

called hsiuts^ai (B.A.) and chujen (M.A.) respectively. Still 
a greater majority never reached even the first grade, and they 
were called the ‘^students"’ or chusheng. There were many 
such "^students” (men of mature age) fed by their districts from 
official or municipal foundations, and these swarmed in the 
countryside like so many unemployed. 

Among the first two grades or those of no grade at all, the 
better type became schoolmasters, while the worse ones became 
the ^'loc^ gentry.’’ They were amateur lawyers who handled 
lawsuits for a living, working hand in hand with the yamen 
bureaucrats, or bought out ^‘tax monopolies,” working hand 
in hand with the local rich. They did not know anything 
about scholarship except that they could repeat the texts of 
the Five Classics by rote, and in most cases also the official 
commentaries by Ghu Hsi, which were for them the one and 
only correct interpretation of Gonfiician truths. They could 
not write good poetry, and their training for the official 
examinations was so limited in scope and the eight-legged 
essay style they had learned was so conventional that they 
coxild not write either a correct newspaper report of events or a 
simple business note involving rather vulgar names of com- 
modities, in which experienced business men easily surpassed 
them. But their power was not to be despised. They had a 
class consciousness, a class organization, and a class ideology. 
I quote in part from Ku Yenwu in his Essays on these 
“Students,” written at the beginning of the Manchu regime. 

There must be half a million of these students in the three 
hundred ?isien. What they learn is writing for the examina- 
tions, and not one in several tens can write decently. Not 
one in a thousand really has mastered the classic learning and 
could be used by the Emperor. • . . They are excused from 
official labour, are free from the oppression of the bureaucrats 
and exempt from the punishment of flogging at court, and 
may call on magistrates in their scholars’ gowns. Hence 
many people desire to be students, not necessarily for the 
honour of the title, but for the protection of their persons and 
their families. Taking seventy per cent as the average, we 
have then three hxmdred and fifty thousand students in the 



LITERARY LIFE 


217 

country who come for such official protection, , . , it is 
these students who go in and out of the yamen to interfere 
with the administration. It is these students who rely on 
such power and bully the country people. It is these students 
who make friends with the yamenites or become yamenites 
themselves. It is these students who, whenever the admini- 
stration does not follow their wish, bind themselves together 
in a row. It is these students who know the secrets of the 
officialdom and trade with them. . . . With the slightest 
rebuff, they cry out, “You are killing the scholars. You are 
burying Confucianists,” . . . The greatest trouble of a 
country is made when strangers come together and form a 
party. These students come from all parts of the land, some 
from a distance of several hundred K, others from a distance 
of ten thousand IL They do not know each other^s names or 
dialects. But once they have passed the examinations . . . 
they form a solid, unbreakable block. The mails are full of 
their letters of recommendation, and officialdom is full of 
their private requests. . . . 

Ku wrote in an age when this evil had been especially 
aggravated, but the parasitic nature of these B.A.s and M.A.s, 
or educated loafers, is essentially unchanged down to this day, 
when they have been redubbed “coUege graduates.” 

Not all of them, of course, are such blackguards. There are in 
every town and village good, retiring, thrifty and contented 
scholars, who belong to the- oppressed rather fhan the oppress- 
ing class, because they choose to remain poor. Occasionally 
there are some sound scholars in a town who purposely avoid 
the examinatioas and bury themselves in their own learning. 
It is often from these people or from the more talented and 
successful candidates that scholarly works are to be expected. 

After all, the old scholar is, on the whole, a sounder product 
than the modem college graduate. His knowledge of world 
geography is less reliable, but his training in character and 
ordinary manners is more thorough. Both the old and modem 
educational systems suffer from the foolish belief that you can 
weigh a man^s knowledge by a series of examinations, which 
must by necessity be of a mechanical nature, and which must 



2i8 my country and my people 

concentrate on the storing of information rather than on the 
development of a critical mind. For a critical mind cannot be 
easily graded or given a marking of 75 or 93, while a question 
on the dates of the Punic Wars can. Moreover, any college 
examination must be of such a nature that students can prepare 
for it at a week’s notice, or all of them will flunk, and any 
knowledge that can be crammed at a week’s notice can be 
forgotten in as short a period. There have not yet been devised 
any series of examinations which are cram-proof and student- 
proof, and the victims are only the professors who are led to 
believe that their students have really imderstood their 
subjects. 

The old college system, whether in the village school or in 
the shuyiian (college of higher standard), had a distinct advan- 
tage over the modem one, for the simple fact that, except for 
the oflScial examinations which were entirely optional, it did 
not rely on the counting of “units” and “marks.” It was a 
tutorial system, where the teacher knew exactly what his pupils 
had or had not read, and where there was a very close and 
intimate relationship between teacher and student. No one 
was promoted, and no one ever “graduated,” and no one 
studied for a diploma, because there was none. Above all, no 
one was obliged to mark time and wait for the last lame sheep 
to jump over the fence. No one was required to read three 
pages of economics on a Thursday morning and stop at the 
second paragraph; he could read to the end of the chapter if he 
wanted, and he had to if he was truly interested. And last of 
all, no one believed, or tried to make others believe, that by 
piling up “units” of psychology, religion and salesmanship and 
English constitutional history on a person, you can create an 
educated man out of him. No one believed, or tried to make 
others believe, that you can “test” a man’s appreciation of 
Shakespeare by either a “paraphrase” of any passage or by 
asking a question on the date of authorship of Othello^ or by 
making him answer questions on Elizabethan idioms. The 
only thing a college education really does for a man is to instil 
in him such a permanent distaste for Elizabethan idioms and the 
De Valorem commentaries that for the remainder of his life 
he will shun Shakespeare as he shuns poison. 



LITERARY LIFE 


219 


V. Prose 

There was very Kttle good prose in the classical Chinese 
literature. This statement perhaps sounds extremely unfair 
and needs clarification. There are many samples of high- 
flown, rhetorical prose, excellent in their way and possessing 
great virtuosity; there are also many samples of poetic prose, 
which by their cadence of vowels are eminendy singable. In 
fact, the regular way of reading prose whether at schools or in 
private was to sing them. There is really no appropriate word 
for this type of reading in English; the so-called “singing’^ is to 
read the lines aloud with a kind of regulated and exaggerated 
intonation, not according to any particular tune, but following 
more or less the tonal values of the vowels in a general tune, 
somewhat similar to the reading of the ‘lesson’’ by the dean of 
an Episcopalian church, but with the syllables a great deal 
more drawn out. 

This type of poetic prose is especially bad in the euphuistic 
compositions of the fifth and sixth centuries, which developed 
directiy out of the/w, or high-flown prose, used in imperial 
eulogies, as unnatural as any court poetry and as awkward as a 
Russian ballet. Such euphuistic prose, running in parallel 
constructions of alternate sentences of four and six syllables — 
hence called the ssulin or “four-six style,” also called pHentH 
or “parallel style” — ^was possible only in a dead and highly 
artificial language, entirely cut apart from the living realities 
of the age. But neither euphuistic prose, nor poetic prose, nor 
high-flown rhetorical prose is good prose. These may be called 
good prose only by a wrong literary standard. By good prose 
I mean prose which has the sweep and rhythm of a good chat 
by the fireside, such as used by the great story-tellers like Defoe 
or Swift or Boswell. Now it is clear that such prose is possible 
only in a living, and not in an artificial, language. Extremely 
good prose there is in the non-classical literature of novels 
written in the spoken language, but we are speaking of classical 
writings. 

The use of the literary language, with its peculiarly crisp 
style, makes this almost impossible. First, good prose must be 



220 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

able to reflect the prosaic facts of life, and for this task the old 
literary language was unsuited. Secondly, good prose must 
have the sweep and width of canvas for full display of its 
powers, and the classical tradition always inclined to extreme 
economy of words. It believed in concentration, selection, 
sublimation and reorganization. Good prose must not be 
dainty, and the aim of classical prose was only to be dainty. 
Good prose must move along with natural big strides, and 
classical prose only moved about on bound feet, where every 
step was an artistic gesture. Good prose requires perhaps ten 
to thirty thousand words for a full-length portrait of a character, 
as for instance in Lytton Strachey’s or Gamaliel Bradford’s 
portraits, and Chinese biographical sketches always limited 
themselves to between two hundred and five hundred words. 
Good prose must not have too well-balanced constructions, 
and the euphuistic prose was distincdy too well-balanced. 

Above all, good prose must be fainiliar, chatty and a little 
personal, and the Chinese literary art consisted in concealing 
one’s feelings and putting on an impersonal front. One would 
expect a biography of at least five thousand words from Hou 
Gh’aochung, giving an intimate portrait of his lover Li 
Hsiangchun, and then finds that Hou did his Biography of Miss 
Li in exacdy three hundred and seventy-five words, written 
in a manner as if he were describing the virtues of his neigh- 
bour’s grandmother. Owing to such a tradition, research on 
the lives of people of the past must for ever grope among 
sketches of three or four hundred words, giving the barest 
beggar’s outline of facts. 

The true fact is, the literary language was entirely unsuitable 
to discuss or narrate facts, which was the reason why writers of 
novels had to resort to the vernacular language. The Chochiian^ 
written probably in the third century b.g., still commanded a 
power for describing batdes. Ssuma Gh’ien (140-80? b.g.), 
the greatest master of Chinese prose, still kept a close touch 
with the language of his day, and dared to incorporate words 
which later scholars would have sneered at as ‘‘vulgar,” and 
his language still retained a virility unmatched by any later 
writer in the classical language. Wang Gh’ung (a.d. 27-107) 
still wrote good prose, because he wrote more or less as he 



LITERARY LIFE 


221 


thought, and was against the pridmx style of writing. But after 
that good prose became almost impossible. The terseness and 
refinement which the literary language had come to may be 
seen in the following Life of Mr. Wu Liu {Five Willows) by 
T^ao Yuanming (a.d. 327-427), supposed to be a portrait of 
imself, in exactly one hundred and twenty-five Chinese words, 
nd held up as a literary model: 

Mr, [Wu Liu] is a native of I don’t know what place. His 
name and surname, too, are unknown. There are five 
willows by his house: hence the tide. He is quiet and talks 
very litde. [He] does not care for money or fame. [He] likes 
to read books, without trying to know their exact meaning. 
Whenever he appreciates [a passage], he is so happy as to 
forget about his food. He loves wine, but, being poor, 
cannot always provide it. His friends and relatives know this 
fact and they sometimes ask him to come over for a drink. 
He always finishes the wine, and makes up his mind to be 
drunk. After he gets drunk, he retires, and does not mind 
where he finds himself. His walls are bare and do not shelter 
him from wind or sunshine. He wears a short jacket of 
flax-cloth in tatters, and his rice-bowl is always empty. But 
he does not care. He often writes to amuse himself and 
indicates his ambition in life, and forgets all about the worldly 
successes or failures. He dies like that. 

liat is dainty prose, but not good prose, according to our 
efinition. It is an absolute proof that the language was dead, 
uppose one were compelled to read only prose of this type, 
^here the characterization is the vaguest, the facts are the 
imsiest, and the narration the barest — ^what would happen to 
ne’s intellectual content? 

This leads to a more important consideration of the intdlec- 
ual content of Chinese prose works. If one picks up any 
‘Collected Works” of a writer, with which Chinese libraries 
nd book stores aboimd (these always forming the largest 
livision in Chinese catalogues), and examines its contents, one 
las the feeling of being lost in a desert of essays, sketches, 
dographies, prefaces, postscripts, ceremonial writings, official 

Q 



222 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

memorajidums, and miscellaneous notes on a most promiscuous 
variety of topics, historical, literary and supernatural, A most 
characteristic fact is that almost all such works contain fifty 
per cent of poetry, and all scholars are poets. Remembering 
the fact that many of these authors have elsewhere written 
consecutive treatises on special topics, this promiscuity is 
perhaps pardonable. Against such kind considerations, how- 
ever, is the fact that these essays and sketches contain the 
cream of the literary activity of many authors, and the only 
literary activity of most, and that they represent to the Chinese 
“literature” par excellence. A Chinese schoolboy, in cultivating 
a prose style, is made to repeat a selection of these essays and 
sketches as his literary models. 

Further consider the fact that these represent the main bulk 
of the tremendous literary activities of a tremendous number of 
scholars of all ages of a tremendously literary-inclined nation, 
and one can feel only resignation or total disappointment. 
Perhaps we are judging it by a modern standard which is 
foreign to it. The human element is always there, too, human 
joys and sorrows, and back of these works there were always 
men whose personal lives or social surroundings we may be 
interested in. But being modern, we cannot help judging it by 
the modem standard. When one reads Kuei Yukuang’s 
biographical sketch of his mother, which is the work of the 
foremost writer of his time and leader of a literary movement, 
and remembers that this is the highest product of a lifetime of 
devotion to learning, and then discovers in it only a purely 
linguistic craftsmanship in imitating the ancients, laid over a 
paucity of characterization, a vacuity of facts and a baldness of 
sentiment, one has a right to be disappointed. 

Good prose there is in Chinese classical literature, but one 
will have to find it for oneself, with a new standard of valuation. 
Whether for liberation of thought and sentiment or for libera- 
tion of style, one will have to find it among a class of slightly 
unorthodox writers, with a slight tinge of heresy in them, who 
had so much intellectual content that they must have had a 
natural contempt for the carcass of style. Such writers are, for 
instance, Su Tungp*o, Ytian Chunglang, Yuan Mei, li Liweng, 
Kung Ting-an, all of whom were intellectual rebels, and whose 



LITERARY LIFE 223 

writings were either banned or greatly depreciated by the 
court critics at one time or another. They had that personal 
style of writing or of thought which orthodox scholars regarded 
as friendly to radical thought and dangerous to morality. 


VI. Literature and Politics 

It is natural that the bondage of language has brought with 
it the bondage of thought. The literary language was dead, so 
dead that it could not express an exact thought. It always lost 
itself in vague generalities. Brought up amidst such general- 
ities, with a total lack of discipline in logical reasoning, Chinese 
scholars often displayed an extreme childishness of argument. 
This disparity between thought and literature brought about 
a situation where thought and literature were regarded as 
having no relation with one another. 

This brings us to the relation between literature and politics. 
In order to understand Chinese politics, one should understand 
Chinese literature. Perhaps one should here avoid the word 
literature {wenhsiieh) and speak of belles-lettres {wenchang ) . 
This worship of belles-lettres as such has become a veritable 
mania in the nation. This is clearest in modem public state- 
ments, whether of a student body, a commercial concern, or a 
political party. In issuing such public statements, the first 
thought is how to make them nice-sounding, how to word them 
beautifully. And the first thought of a newspaper reader is 
whether such statements read nicely or not. Such statements 
almost always say nothing, but almost always say it beautifully. 
A palpable lie is praised if it is told in good form. 

This has led to a type of belles-lettres which, when translated 
into English, seems extremely silly. Thus in a comparatively 
recent statement by an important political party we read; 
“Whoever violates our national sovereignty and invades our 
territory, we will drive them out! Whoever endangers the 
peace of the world, we will stop them! We are deter- 
mined. . , . We are resolved to exert our utmost, . . , We 
must unite together. ...” A modem public would refuse to 
accept such a statement. They would require a more exact 



224 my country and my people 

analysis of the foreign and domestic political situation of the 
moment and a more detailed account of the ways and means 
by which they are going to “drive out” the invaders and 
“stop” the breakers of international peace. This literary 
malpractice is sometimes carried to stupid extremes, as when 
a commercial advertisement for silk stockings takes the form of 
a long five-hundred- word essay, beginning with “Since the 
Manchurian provinces have been lost. . . .” 

That does not mean, however, that the Chinese people are 
simple-minded. Their literature is full of generalities, but it is 
not simple. Rather on the contrary, fi:om this hedging about 
the problems and these vague generalities of expression, there 
has developed, strange to say, the utmost finesse of expression. 
The Chinese, versed in this literary training, have learned to 
read between the lines, and it is the foreigners’ inability to 
read between the lines, or the fault of the bad translators in 
missing the “meaning beyond the words” (as we say in 
Chinese) that causes the foreign correspondents to curse both 
China and themselves for their inability to make head or 
tail of such cleverly-worded and apparently harmless public 
statements. 

For the Chinese have developed an art of mincing words — 
largely due, as we have seen, to the monosyllabic character of 
the literary language — and we believe in words. It is words by 
which we live and words which determine the victory in a 
political or legal struggle. Chinese civil wars are always 
preceded by a batde of words in the form of exchange of 
telegrams. The public assiduously read this exchange of 
abusiveness or of polite recriminations or even brazen-faced 
lies, and decide which has a better literary style, while they 
appreciate fully that an ominous cloud is hanging over the 
horizon. This is called in Chinese “first politeness, and then 
weapons.” The party about to revolt charges the central 
government with “corruption” and “selling the country to its 
enemy,” while the central government more adroitly charges 
the rebehing party to “co-operate for peace” and “for the 
unity of the nation,” “because we are living in a period of 
national trouble,” etc., etc., while both armies move nearer 
and nearer the clashing line and dig deeper and deeper 



I^ITERARY LIFE 225 

trenches. The party that finds a better-sounding pretext wins 
in the eyes of the public. The dead language therefore became 
a dishonest language. Anything is permissible so long as you 
call it by the wrong name. 

Some instance of the Chinese literary finesse are the fol- 
lowing. When a pro\incial government embarked on a policy 
of public sale of opium, it found an extremely clever war-cry 
of four syllables, ^ ‘Imply banning in taxing,’* and the discovery 
of that slogan alone carried the policy through as no other 
slogan possibly could. WTien the Chinese government removed 
its capital from Nanking to Loyang following the Shanghai 
War, it found another slogan called “long-term resistance.” 
In Szechuen some of the war-lords forced the farmers to plant 
opium, and had the cleverness to call it “laziness tax,” the tax 
being on those farmers who are lazy enough not to plant 
opium. Recendy, the same pro\ince has produced a new tax 
called “goodwill tax,” an extra tax on top of those which 
are already thirty times the regular farm tax, which is to bring 
about goodwill between the people and the soldiers by paying 
the soldiers and making it unnecessary for the unpaid army 
further to help themselves. That is W'hy, when we are among 
ourselves, we laugh at the foreign de\ils for their “simple- 
mindedness,” 

Such literary catastrophes are possible only in a nation 
believing in a false literary standard, and are in fact merely the 
result of the wrong method of teaching composition in primary 
schools. A modem Chinese, seeing the performance of such a 
literary atrocity, can only do either of two things. First, he can 
take the traditional view of literature and blandly regard it as 
pure belles-lettres^ which need have no correlation with the 
facts which the writing is supposed to convey — and then read 
between the lin^. Or he must demand a closer approximation 
between words and thought and a new literary standard, with 
a language more capable of expressing man’s life and thoughts. 
In other words, he must regard the prevalence of such verbose 
statements as a malpractice more of a literary than of a political 
origin. But he must also believe that unless such literary mal- 
practices are weeded out, political malpractices must also 
follow. 



226 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


VII. Literary Revolution 

A literary revolution was in fact necessary, and a literary 
revolution came in 191 7, led by Dr. Hu Shih and Gh’en Tuhsiu, 
advocating the use of the spoken language as the literary 
medium. There were other revolutions before this. Han Yu in 
the T’ang Dynasty had revolted against the euphuistic style 
of the fifth and sixth centuries, and advocated the use of a simple 
style, bringing it back to a saner literary standard and giving 
us a more readable prose. But it was by going back to the early 
literature of the Chou Dynasty. This was still classical in point 
of view; it was only trying to imitate the ancients, and it was 
not easy. After Han Yii, literary fashions fluctuated between 
imitating the Chou Period and the Gh’in-Han Period, and when 
Han Yii himself became sufiiciently ancient, the T’ang Period 
also became, at difierent times, a great period itself for 
imitation. The Sung people imitated the T’angs, and the 
Ming and Gh’ing writers imitated the T’angs and Sungs. 
Literary fashions became then a battle of imitations. 

Only as late as the end of the sixteenth century did there rise a 
man who said that “modem people should write in the modem 
language,” showing throughout a sound historical perspective. 
This was Yuan Chunglang, together with his two brothers. 
Yuan dared to incorporate words of ordinary intercourse and 
even slang words in his prose, and for a time he obtained 
great literary vogue, with a school of followers known as the 
Kung-an school (Kung-an being the name of Yiian’s district). 
It was he, too, who advocated the liberation of prose from 
current formal and stylistic conventions. It was he who said 
that the way of writing essays was just to take the words down 
as they flow from your “wrist,” i.e., from your pen. It was he 
who advocated a personal, individualistic style, believing that 
literature was but the expression of one’s personality, hsingling^ 
which should not be repressed. 

But the use of commonplace and slang words was soon 
frowned upon by the orthodox court critics, and this author 
received nothing except epithets like “frivolity,” “inelegance,” 
“unorthodoxy,” in all histories of literature. Only as late as 



LITE R ARY LIFE 


227 

1934 was this founder of the personal style of writing rescued 
from partial or total oblivion. Yuan also never had the courage, 
or the insight, to advocate the use of pekhm^ or the vernacular 
tongue, in writing. It was rather the %vriters of popular novels 
who had given up all ambition to literary fame and who were 
forced to write in the pehhua to make their novels intelligible 
to the public that laid the true foundation of literature in the 
living tongue. Consequently, when Dr. Hu Shih advocated 
the use of this medium, he had, as he repeatedly insisted, the 
groundwork thoroughly prepared for him for nearly a thousand 
years by these novelists, and people writing in the new medium 
had ready first-class models before them. Hence its complete 
overwhelming success in the space of three or four years. 

Two important changes followed the literary revolution. 
First, the cultivation of the personal, familiar style of writing, 
represented by the Chou brothers, Chou Tsojen and Chou 
Shujen (“Lusin’’). It is noteworthy that Chou Tsojen was 
greatly influenced by the school of Yiian Chunglang. The 
second change was the so-called ‘‘Europeanization of Chinese” 
in syntax as well as in vocabulaiy^ as silly in the former as it is 
inevitable in the latter. The introduction of Western terms is 
only natural, for old terms are not adequate to represent 
modem concepts. It began with Liang Chlch’ao in the 
eighteen nineties, but was greatly aggravated or accelerated 
after 1917* With the mania for Western things, this European- 
ization of Chinese may well be regarded as an aggravation, 
but the style introduced is so foreign to the Chinese language 
that it cannot last. This situation is especially bad in trans- 
lations of foreign works, which are as preposterous as they are 
unintelligible to the average Chinese reader. 

Actually, such atrocities are perpetrated by translators for 
no other reason than their insufficient mastery of the foreign 
language, which forces them to translate word by word without 
sensing the total concept of the phrase. {Notre-Dame de Paris 
has actually been translated as “My Parisian Wife.”) Imagine 
also the grotesqueness of translating long English relative 
clauses following their antecedents into Chinese, with the 
relative clauses (which do not exist in Chinese) changed into a 
long string of modifiers extending over several lines before 



228 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

coming to the word they modify. Certain changes are evident 
improvements, like the introduction of the loose construction. 
Whereas it was impossible to put an if clause behind the main 
clause (/ shanH go^ if it rains) ^ it is now possible to do so. This 
makes &e prose so much more supple and flexible. 

Chinese prose has a great future before it. It can in time 
rival any national language in power and beauty. The best 
modem English prose is distinguished by a healthy mixture of 
concrete words of imagery, taken from the homely English 
language, and words of more exact definition and literary 
meaning, taken from the Romanic heritage. A written 
language which considers such expressions as '‘a nose for news,*^ 
‘^the cobwebs of knowledge,” ‘^the drift of language,” ‘‘riding on 
the tide of success” and “Lloyd George’s flirtations with the 
Conservative Party” as good, standard English must remain 
a virile literary medium. A false literary standard which weeds 
out the words nose^ cobwebs^ drifts tide^ etc., and enforces sub- 
stitutes like appreciation^ accumulatwnsy tendency^ forward movement^ 
must at once lose this virility. The two components, concrete 
and abstract words, exist in great richness in the Chinese 
language. Its basic structure is concrete throughout, like the 
Anglo-Saxon words, and the literary heritage of the classical 
literature has left behind a vocabulary more stylistic and refined 
in meaning, which corresponds to the Romanic terminology 
in English. From the mixture of these two elements in the 
hands of a true literary craftsman there will yet emerge a prose 
of the greatest power and beauty. 


VIIL Poetry 

It seems fair to say that poetry has entered more into the 
fabric of our life than it has in the West and is not regarded 
with that amused indifference which seems quite general in a 
Western society. As I have already mentioned, all Chinese 
scholars are poets, or pretend to be, and fifty per cent of the 
contents of a scholar’s collected works usually consists of 
poetry. The Chinese imperial examinations, ever since the 
T’ang Period, have always included the composition of poems 



LITERARYLIFE 229 

among the important tests of literary ability. Even parents 
who had talented daughters to give away, and sometimes the 
talented girls themselves, often chose their bridegrooms on the 
strength of a few lines of really good poetr>% Captives often 
regained their freedom or received extra courtesy by their 
ability to write two or three verses which appealed to the men 
in power. For poetry is regarded as the highest literary accom- 
plishment and the surest and easiest way of testing a man’s 
literary skill. Moreover, Chinese painting is closely connected 
with Chinese poetry, being akin to it, if not essentially identical 
with it, in spirit and technique. 

To my mind, poetry has taken over the function of religion 
in China, in so far as religion is taken to mean a cleansing of 
man’s soul, a feeling for the mystery and beauty of the universe, 
and a feeling of tenderness and compassion for one’s fellowmen 
and the humble creatures of life. Religion cannot be, and 
should not be, anything except an inspiration and a living 
emotion. The Chinese have not found this inspiration or living 
emotion in their religions, which to them are merely decorative 
patches and frills covering the seamy side of life, having largely 
to do with sickness and death. But they have found this 
inspiration and living emotion in poetry. 

Poetry has taught the Chinese a view of life which, through 
the influence of proverbs and scrolls, has permeated into society 
in general and given them a sense of compassion, an overflowing 
love of nature, and an attitude of artistic acceptance of life. 
Through its feeling for nature it has often healed the woimds in 
their souls, and through its lesson of enjojmient of the simple 
life it has kept a sane ideal for the Chinese civilization. Some- 
times it appeals to their romanticism and gives them a vicarious 
emotional uplift from the humdrum workaday world, and 
sometimes it appeals to their feeling of sadness, resignation and 
restraint, and cleanses the heart through the artistic reflection 
of sorrow. It teaches them to listen with enjoyment to the 
soimd of raindrops on banana leaves, to admire the chimney 
smoke of cottages rising and mingling with the evening clouds 
nestling on a hillside, to be tender toward the white lilies on the 
country path, and to hear in the song of the cuckoo the longing 
of a traveller for his mother at home. It gives them a kind 



230 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

thought for the poor tea-picking girl or for the mulberry 
maiden, for the secluded and forsaken lover, for the mother 
whose son is far away in army service, and for the common 
people whose lives are harassed by war. Above all, it teaches 
them a pantheistic union with nature, to awake and rejoice 
with spring, to doze off and hear time visibly flying away in the 
droning of the cicada in summer, to feel sad with the falling 
autumn leaves, and ‘‘to look for lines of poetry in snow” in 
winter. In this sense, poetry may well be called the Chinaman’s 
religion. I hardly think that, without their poetry — the 
poetry of living habits as well as the poetry of words — ^the 
Chinese people could have survived to this day. 

Yet Chinese poetry would not have achieved such an im- 
portant place in Chinese life without definite reasons for it. 
First, the Chinese artistic and literary genius, which thinks in 
emotional concrete imagery and excels in the painting of 
atmosphere, is especially suitable to the writing of poetry. 
Their characteristic genius for contraction, suggestion, sublim- 
ation and concentration, which unfits them for prose within 
the classical limits, makes the writing of poetry natural and 
easy to them. If, as Bertrand Russell says, “in art they aim at 
being exquisite, and in life as being reasonable,” then it is 
natural for them to excel in poetry. Chinese poetry is dainty. 
It is never long, and never very powerful. But it is eminently 
fitted for producing perfect gems of sentiment and for painting 
with a few strokes a magical scenery, alive with rhythmic 
beauty and informed with spiritual grace. 

The whole tenor of Chinese thought, too, encourages the 
writing of poetry as the highest crown of the literary art. 
Chinese education emphasizes the development of the all- 
round man, and Chinese scholarship emphasizes the unity of 
knowledge. Very specialized sciences, like archaeology, are 
few, and the Chinese archaeologists always remain human, 
capable of taking an interest in their family or in the pear tree 
in their courtyard. Poetry is exactly that type of creation 
which calls for man’s faculty of general synthesis; in other 
words, for man’s ability to look at life as a whole. Where they 
fail in analysis, they achieve in synthesis. 

There is yet another important reason. Poetry is essentially 



LITERARY LIFE 


1^31 

thought coloured with emotion, and the Chinese think always 
with emotion, and rarely with their analytical reason. It is no 
mere accident that the Chinese regard the belly as the seat of 
all their scholarship and learning, as may be seen in such 
expressions, “a bell)^ul of essays” or “of scholarship.” Now 
Western psychologists have proved the belly to be the seat of 
our emotions, and as no one thinks completely without emotion, 
I am ready to believe that we think with the belly as well as 
with the head. The more emotional the type of thinking, the 
more are the intestines responsible for one’s thoughts. What 
Isadora Duncan said about women’s thoughts originating in 
the abdomen and travelling upward, while men’s thoughts 
originate in the head and travel downward, is true of the 
Chinese. This corroborates my theory about the femininity of 
the Chinese mind (Chapter III). Whereas we say in English 
that a man “ransacks his brain” for ideas during a composition, 
we say in Chinese that he “ransacks his dry intestines” for a 
good line of poetry or prose. The poet Su Tungp’o once asked 
his three concubines after dinner what his belly contained. 
The cleverest one, Ch’aoytin, replied that he had “a bellyful 
of unseasonable thoughts.” TTie Chinese can write good poetry 
because they think with their intestines. 

Further, there is a relation between Chinese language and 
poetry. Poetry should be crisp, and the Chinese language is 
crisp. Poetry should work by suggestion, and the Chinese 
language is fiill of contractions which say more than what the 
words mean. Poetry should express ideas by concrete imagery, 
and the Chinese language revels in word-im^ery. Finally, 
the Chinese language, with its clear-cut tones and its lack of 
final consonants, retains a sonorous singing quality which has 
no parallel in non-tonal languages. Chinese prosody is based 
on the balance of tonal values, as English poetry is based 
on accent. The four tones are divided into two groups: the 
“soft” tones (called p^ing)^ long and theoretically even but 
really circumflex, and the “hard” tones (called tsek), which 
consist of acute, grave and abrupt tones, the last theoretically 
ending in j&, A;’s, which have disappeared in modem mandarin. 
The Chinese ear is trained to sense the rhythm and alternation 
of soft and hard tones. This tonal rhythm is observed even in 



232 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

good prose, which explains the fact that Chinese prose is 
“singable’’ (see page 219). For anyone who has ears, this 
tonal rhythm can be easily sensed in Ruskin’s or Walter 
Pater’s prose. Observe the contrast between words ending 
in “liquids” like /, w, n, ng and words ending in “explosives” 
like p, k in Ruskin’s writings, and this total rhythm can be 
easily analysed. 

In classical T’ang poetry this alternation is quite complex, 
as in the following “regular” scheme (“o” standing for the 
soft tones and standing for the hard tones). In reading 
the following, say “sing” for “o” and for to feel the 
contrasting effect, giving the says a final, more or less abrupt 
tone: 


1 

0 0 • • • 0 0 

(rhyme) 

1 2. 

# • 0 0 • • 0 

(rhyme) 

1 3- 

• # 0 0 0 • • 


1 4 . 

0 0 • • • 0 0 

(rhyme) 

f 5- 

0 0 • • 0 0 • 


t 6. 

0 • 0 0 • • 0 

(rhyme) 

1 7 . 

• • 0 0 0 • • 


1 8. 

0 0 • • 0 0 0 

(rhyme) 

After the fourth syllable in each line 

there is a hiatus. Each 


two lines form a couplet by themselves, and the middle two 
couplets must be real couplets, Le.^ all the words in each line 
must be balanced against corresponding words in the other line, 
both in tone and meaning. The easiest way to understand this 
sense of alternation is to imagine two interlocutors speaking to 
one another, each speaking a line. Take the first four and the 
last three syllables of each line as two individual units, and 
substitute for them two English words, and the result is a 
pattern as outlined below. 


(A) ah, yes? 

(B) but, no? 



LITERARY LIFE 


233 


(A) but, yes! 

(B) ah, no! 

(A) ah, y^? 

(B) but, no? 

(A) but, yes! 

(B) ah, no! 

Notice that the second interlocutor always tries to counter the 
first, while the first always takes up the thread of the second 
in its first unit (the “ahs” and “buts’’) but varies the second 
unit. The exclamation and question marks merely serve to 
indicate that there are two different kinds of and ‘‘noes.” 

Notice that with the exception of the second unit of the first 
couplet all the units are properly balanced in tone. 

But we are more interested in the inner technique and spirit 
of Chinese poetry than in its prosody. By what inner technique 
did it enter that magic realm of beauty? How did it throw a 
veil of charm and atmosphere over an ordinary landscape and, 
with a few words, paint a striking picture of reality, sur- 
charged with the poet’s emotion? How did the poet select and 
eliminate his material and how did he inform it with his own 
spirit and make it glow with rhythmic vitality? In what way was 
the technique of Chinese poetry and Chinese painting really 
one? And why is it that Chinese poets are painters, and painters, 
poets? 

The striking thing about Chinese poetry is its plastic imagin- 
ation and its kinship in technique with painting. This is 
most evident in the handling of perspective. Here the analogy 
between Chinese poetry and painting is almost complete. Let 
us begin with perspective. \^y is it that when we read the 
lines of Li Po (701-762) — 

Above the man’s face arise the hills; 

Beside the horse’s head emerge the clouds, 

we are presented with a picture in bold outline of a man 
travelling on horseback on a high mountain path? The words, 
short and sharp and meaningless at first sight, wiU be found, 
with a moment’s use of the imagination, to give us a picture 



5234 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

as a painter would paint it on his canvas, and conceal a trick 
of perspective by using some objects in the foreground (“the 
man’s face” and “the horse’s head”) to set off the distant view. 
Entirely apart from the poetic feeling that the man is so high 
up in the mountains, one realizes that the scenery was looked 
at by the poet as if it were a piece of painting on a flat surface. 
The reader would then see, as he actually sees in paintings or 
snapshots, that hilltops seem to rise from the man’s face and 
the clouds nestling somewhere in the distance form a line 
broken by the horse’s head. This clearly was not possible if 
the poet was not on horseback and the clouds were not lying 
on a lower level in the distance. In the end, the reader has to 
imagine himself on horseback on a high mountain path and 
view the scene from the same perspective as the poet did. 

In this way, and really through this trick of perspective, 
these pen-pictures gain a bold relief impossible with other 
methods. It cannot be said that the Chinese poets were 
conscious of the theory of this technique, but had in any case 
foimd the technique itself. Hundreds of examples might be 
cited. With this technique of perspective, Wang Wei (699- 
759), probably China’s greatest descriptive poet, said: 

In the mountains a night of rain, 

And above the trees a hundred springs. 

Of course, it requires a litde effort to imagine “springs on tree- 
tops” (which are the exact words in the original) ; but exactly 
because such a perspective is so rare and can o^y be found 
when high mountain gorges, forming, after the previous night’s 
rainfall, a series of cascades in the distance, appear above the 
outline of some trees in the foreground, the reader gains a 
clear perspective otherwise impossible. As with the former 
example from Li Po, the art lies in the selection of an object 
in the foreground to set it off against the objects in the distance, 
like clouds, cascades, hilltops and the Milky Way, and then 
painting th^e together on a fiat surface. Thus Liu Yuhsi (772- 
842) wrote: 


[For an] autumn scene: several dots of hills 

over the wall. 



LITERARY LIFE 


235 

The picture technique here is perfect: the hilltops appearing 
as several ^^dots” over the wall give one a stereoscopic sense of 
distance from the hills. In this sense, we can understand Li 
Liweng (seventeenth century), when he says in one of his 
dramatic works: 

First we look at the hills in the painting, 

Then we look at the painting in the hills. 

The poet’s eye is the painter’s eye, and painting and poetry 
become one. 

This affinity between painting and poetry is all the more 
natural and apparent when we consider not only their simi- 
larity of technique, but also their similarity of themes, and the 
fact that the title of a painting is often actually a line taken 
from some verse. In any case, the painter after finishing his 
painting usually writes a verse at the top in those vacant 
spaces characteristic of Chinese paintings. Of this, more later 
on when we discuss painting proper. But this affinity is 
responsible for another point in Chinese poetry, viz., the 
impressionistic technique. It is a technique which gives a 
series of impressions, vivid and unforgettable, and leaves 
merely a flavour, an indefinable feeling behind, which awakes 
the reader’s senses but does not satisfy his understanding. 
Chinese poetry is consummate in the art of sublimation, 
suggestion and artistic restraint. The poet does not try to say 
all he has to say. His business is but to evoke a picture, making 
a pen sketch by a few swift, clear strokes. 

Hence arose the great school of pastoral poets, specializing 
in landscape paintings and using the impressionistic technique. 
Such masters in pastoral poetry are T’ao Yiianming (372-427), 
Hsieh Lingyiin (385-433?), Wang Wei (699-759) and Wei 
Ingwu (740-^. 830), but the technique is practically universal 
with Chinese poets. Of Wang Wei (perhaps better known as 
Wang Mochieh) it is said that ‘‘there is poetry in his painting 
and painting in his poetry,” because Wang was a great painter 
himself. His WangcKuanchi is nothing but a collection of 
pastoral landscapes. A poem like the following can only be 
written by one inspired by the spirit of Chinese painting: 



236 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Amidst the mist-like autumn showers, 

Shallow the stony rapids flow; 

Its sprays besprinkle one another, 

Up and down the egrets go. 

— The Liianchia Rapids, 

And here we come to the problem of suggestion. Some 
modern Western painter has attempted the impossible by 
trying to paint ‘‘the sound of sunshine going upstairs,” but the 
problem of artistic limitations has been partly overcome by 
Chinese painters by the use of suggestion, really developed by 
the poetic art. One can actually paint sounds and smell by the 
method of suggestion. A Chinese painter would paint the 
sound of temple bells without showing the bells at all on 
the canvas, but possibly by merely showing the top of a temple 
roof hidden among trees, and the effect of the sound on men’s 
faces. Interesting is the method of Chinese poets in suggesting 
smeU, which lends itself to pictorial handling. Thus a Chinese 
poet describing the fragrance of the open country would write: 

Coming back over flowers, fragrant are the 

horse’s hoofs. 

Nothing would be easier than painting a flock of butterflies 
flitting after the horse’s hoofs, which is what a Chinese painter 
actually did. By the same technique of suggestion, the poet 
Liu Yiihsi wrote about the fragrance of a court lady: 

In her new dress, she comes from her vermilion towers; 

The light of spring floods the palace which Sorrow embowers. 

To the court she comes, and on her carved jade hair-pin 

Alights a dragon-fly, as she is counting the flowers. 

The lines suggest to the reader the beauty and fragrance both 
of the carved jade hair-pin and of the lady herself, a beauty 
and fragrance which deceived the dragon-fly. 

From this impressionistic technique of suggestion arose that 
method of suggesting thought and sentiments which we call 
symbolic thinking. The poet suggests ideas, not by verbose 



LITERARY LIFE 


237 

statements but by evoking a mood which puts the reader in 
that train of thought. Such thoughts are as indefinable as the 
scene which evokes them is clear and vivid. Picturesque 
scenery is then used to suggest certain thoughts very much in 
the same w^ay as certain chords in the Wagnerian operas are 
used to suggest the entrance of certain characters. Logically, 
there is little connection between the scenery and the man’s 
inner thoughts, but symbolically and emotionally, there is a 
connection. The method, called hsingy or evocation, is as 
ancient as the Book of Poetry. In T’ang poetry, for instance, the 
passing of a fallen dynasty is variously expressed by such 
symbolic method, without mentioning the thoughts them- 
selves. Thus Wei Chuang sang of the past glories of Nanking 
in the following manner in his poem On a Painting of Chinling: 

The rain on the river is mist-like, and the grass on the 
banks is high. 

The Six Dynasties passed like a dream, and forlorn’s the 
birds’ cry. 

Most heartless of all are the willows of the palace walls, 

Even now in a three-mile green, lurid resplendour they lie. 

The scene of the three-mile-long willow-overgrown walls was 
enough to remind his contemporaries of the past glories of 
Gh’en Houchu in his most glorious days, and the mention of 
the ‘‘heartless willows” strikes a contrast between human 
vicissitudes and nature’s serenity. By the same technique, Po 
Ghiiyi (772-846) expressed his sadness over the past glories of 
T’ang Minghuang and Yang Kweifei by merdy drawing a 
picture of white-haired, old imperial chambermaids gossiping 
in a deserted palace, without of course going into the details of 
their discourse: 

Here empty is the country palace, empty like a dream. 

In loneliness and quiet the red imperial flowers gleam. 

Some white-haired, palace chambermaids are chatting. 

Chatting about the dead and gone Hsiianchuang regime. 


In the same way Liu Yiihsi sang about the decay of the Black- 



1238 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

gown Alley, which once was the home of the great Wang and 
Hsieh families: 

Now by the Red-sparrow Bridge wild grasses are growing, 
And on the Blackgown Alley the ev’ning sun is glowing, 
And the swallows which once graced the Wang and 

Hsieh halls, 

Now feed in common people^s homes — ^without their 

knowing. 

The last and most important point is the investment of 
natural objects with human actions, qualities and emotions, 
not by direct personification but by cunning metaphors, like 
'‘idle flowers,” "the sad wind,” "fhe chafing sparrow,” etc. 
The metaphors in themselves are nothing: the poetry consists 
in the poet spreading his emotion over the scenery and com- 
pelling it by the force of his emotion to live and share his own joys 
and sorrows. This is clearest in the above example, where the 
three-mile-long gay and green willows are referred to as "heart- 
less” because they did not, as they ought to, remember Ch’en 
Houchu and share the poet’s feeling of poignant regret. 

Once when I was travelling with a poet friend, our bus passed 
a small secluded hillside, with just a single cottage, with all 
doors closed and a solitary peach tree in full blossom standing 
idly in front, apparently wasting its fragrant glory on a deserted 
valley, I still remember the last two lines of the quatrain 
which my friend sketched in his notebook: 

The farmer couple to the fields have gone, 

And dead-bored are the flowers outside its doors. 

What is achieved, then, is a poetic feehng for the peach tree, 
supposed to be capable of being "bored” to death, which 
borders on pantheism. The same technique, or rather attitude, 
is extremely common in all good Chinese poetry. So, for 
instance, did Li Po begin one of his best poems: 

Late at twilight I passed the verdant hills, 

And the mountain moon followed me horn 



LITERARYLIFE 239 

Or, in one of his best-known poems, Drinking Alone under the 
Moon: 

A pot of wine amidst the flowers, 

Alone I drink sans company. 

The moon I invite as drinking friend. 

And with my shadow we are three. 

The moon, I see, she does not drink, 

My shadow only follows me: 

I"ll keep them company a while, 

For spring’s the time for gayety. 

I sing: the moon she swings her head; 

I dance: my shadow swells and sways. 

We sport together while awake, 

While drunk, we all go our own ways. 

An eternal, speechless trio then, 

Till in the clouds we meet again! 

This is more than a metaphor: it is a poetic faith of union with 
nature, which makes life itself pulsate with human emotions. 

The expression of this pantheism or fellowship with nature 
is best illustrated in Tu Fu’s Quatrains on Sundry Moods^ showing 
successively a humanizing of nature, a tender feeling for its 
mishaps, a sheer delight in its contact, and finally a complete 
union with it. So goes the first stanza: 

I see the traveller’s xmwaking sorrow. 

The vagabond spring’s come in a clatter. 

Too profusely rich are the flowers. 

Too garrulous the parrots’ chatter. 

The words ‘Vagabond,” “garrulous,” and “chatter” here in- 
directly invest the spring and the parrots with a human quality. 
Then he lodges a complaint against the brutal winds of last 
night, which “bulhed” the peach and pear trees in his yard: 

My hand-planted pear trees are not orphans! 

The old man’s low walls are like their house! 

But the spring wind thought fit to bully them. 

Last night it broke some of then boughs! 



*240 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

This tender feeling for the trees is repeated in the last stanza: 

Weak and tender is the willow next door, 

Like a fifteen-year-old maiden’s waist. 

Who would have thought this morning that it happened, 
The wind did break its longest bough, its best! 

Once more, the willows dancing gaily before the wind are 
referred to as ahandonnSe^ and the peach blossoms which care- 
lessly drop and float on the water wherever it might carry 
them are regarded as women of fickle character in the jSfth 
stanza: 

I deeply rue the passing of spring, 

And on a cane I pace the scented isle. 

Before the winds dance the wanton willows. 

And on the water the petulous petals smile. 

This pantheistic outlook sometimes loses itself in a sheer 
delight in contact with worms and flying insects as in the third 
stanza. But we may take an example from a Sung poet, Yeh 
Li, who wrote on A Scene in Late Spring: 

Pair by pair, little swallows on the bookshelves hop. 

Dot by dot, litde petals on the ink-slab drop. 

Reading the Book of Changes I sit near a window. 

Forgetful how much longer spring will with us stop. 

This subjectivity of outlook, coupled with an infinitely 
tender feeling for the birds and animals, enables Tu Fu to 
speak of the “clenching fists” of white egrets resting on the 
sand-bank, and of the “striking fins” of jumping fish near his 
boat. And here we see the most interesting point in Chinese 
poetry — ^the Einfuhlung, The use of the word “fists” for the 
egrets’ claws is then not merely a literary metaphor, for the 
poet has so identified himself with them that he probably feels 
the clenching himself and wishes his readers to share this 
emotional insight with him. Here we do not see the scientist’s 
minute observation of details, but rather the poet’s keenness 



LITERARY LIFE 


241 

which comes from love, as sharp as a lover^s eyes, and as un- 
failing and correct as a mother’s intuition. This Einfuklung^ 
this sharing of human emotions with the universe, this poetic 
transformation of dead objects which makes the moss ‘‘mount” 
one’s doorstep and the colour of grass “enter” one’s wmdow- 
screen, this poetic illusion, for illusion it is, is felt so intuitively 
and so constandy that it seems to constitute the very essence of 
Chinese poetry. An analog)’^ ceases to be an analogy, but 
becomes a poetic truth, A man must be indeed more or less 
intoxicated with nature to write the following lines (by Ch’en 
Ngo) about the lotus flower, suggestive of Heine: 

Lighdy dips her green bonnet. 

When a zephyr past her has blown; 

Red and naked she shows herself. 

When she is sure of being alone. 

This review of the two sides of the poetic technique, regard- 
ing its treatment of scenery {ching) and emotion {cKing)^ en- 
ables us to understand the spirit of Chinese poetry and its 
cultural value to the nation. This cultural value is twofold, 
corresponding to the broad classification of Chinese poetry 
into the two types: (i) haofang poetry, or poetry of romantic 
abandonment, carefree, given to a life of emotion, and express- 
ing a revolt against the restraints of society and teaching a 
profoimd love of nature, and (2) xmnyiieh poetry, or poetry of 
artistic restraint, tender, resigned, sad and yet without anger, 
teaching a lesson of contentment and the love of one’s fellow- 
men, especially the poor and down-trodden, and inculcating a 
hatred of war. 

Among the first type may be classified Gh’u Yuan (343-290 
B.C.), the pastoral poets like T’ao Yuanming, Hsieh Lingyiin, 
Wang Wei, Meng Haojan (689—740), the crazy monk Hanshan 
(around the year 900), while nearer Tu Fu are Tu Mu (803- 
852), Po Chiiyi, Yuan Chen (779-831) and the greatest 
poetess of China, Li Ch’ingchao (1081-1141?). No strict 
classification is, of course, possible, but there was a third group 
of sentimental poets, like Li Ho (Li Ch’angchi, 790-816), li 
Shangyin (813-858) and his contemporary Wen T’ingyurr, 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


242 

Gh’en Houchu (niler of Gh’en, 553-604) and Nalan Hsingteh 
(a Manchu, 1655-1685), most distingmshed for their love 
lyrics. 

The first type is best represented by Li Po, of whom Tu Fu 
says: 


With ajar of wine, Li makes a hundred poems, 

He sleeps in an inn of Gh’angan city. 

The Emperor sent for him and he’d not move, 

Saying, “I’m the God of Wine, Your Majesty!” 

Li Po is Ghina’s prince of vagabond poets, with his drink, his 
dread of officialdom, his companionship with the moon, his 
love of high mountain scenery, and his constant aspiration: 

Oh, could I but hold a celestial sword 
And stab a whale across the seas! 

Li Po’s romanticism ended finally in his death from reaching 
for the shadow of the moon in the water in a drunken fit and 
falling overboard. Good, infinitely good, that the staid and 
apparently unfeeling Ghinese could sometimes reach for the 
shadow of the moon and die such a poetic death! 

Well it is that the Chinese had this love of nature which 
constituted the poetry of their existence, and which overflowed 
from the fullness of their hearts into literature. It taught the 
Chinese a more widespread love of birds and flowers than is 
usual among the common folk of other nations. I have seen a 
Ghinese crowd get excited at the sight of a bird in a cage, 
which made them childish and good-humoured again, made 
them share a common feeling of gay irresponsibility and broke 
down the barriers of hostility among strangers, as only an 
object of common delight could. The worship of the pastoral 
life has coloured the whole Chinese culture, and to-day officials 
or scholars speak of “going back to the farm” as the most 
elegant, the most refined and most sophisticated ambition 
in life they can think of. The vogue is so great that even the 
deepest-dyed scoundrel of a politician will pretend that he has 
something of Li Po’s romanticism in his nature. Actually I 



LITERARY LIFE 


243 

suspect even he is capable of such feelings, because after all he 
is a Chinese. As a Chinese, he knows how much life is worth, 
and at midnight, gazing through his window at the stars, the 
lines he learned at childhood come back to him: 

I was drunk, half asleep, through the whole livelong day. 
Hearing spring’d soon be gone, I hurried on my way. 

In a bamboo courtyard I chatted with a monk. 

And so leisurely passed one more half-day away. 

To him, it is a prayer. 

The second type is best represented by Tu Fu, with his quiet 
humour, his restraint, his tenderness toward the poor and 
oppressed, and his unconcealed hatred of war. 

Well it is, too, that the Chinese have poets like Tu Fu and 
Po Chuyi, who portray our sorrows in beauty and beget in us 
a sense of compassion for mankind. Tu Fu lived in times of 
political chaos and banditry and soldiery and famine like our 
own, and wrote: 

Meats and wines are rotting in the mansions, 

And human bones are rotting outside their doors, 

A similar note was struck in the Song of the Mulberiy Maiden by 
Hsieh Fangteh: 

When cuckoos cried fourth watch in the dead of the night, 
Then I rose, lest the worms, short of leaves, hunger might. 
Who’d think that those dames weren’t yet through with 
their dance? 

The pale moon shone through wiUows o’er their windows 
bright. 

Note the peculiarly Chinee ending, where instead of driving 
home a socialistic thought, the poet contents himself with 
drawing a picture. Even then, this poem is a little too rebellious 
for the average Chinese poetry. The usual note is one of sad- 
ness and resignation, as in so many of Tu Fu’s poems, describing 



244 COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the harassing effects of war, of which the following, The Bailiff 
of ShihhaOy is a good example: 

I came to Shihhao village and stayed that eve. 

A bailiff came for press-gang in the night. 

The old man, hearing this, climbed o’er the wall, 

And the old woman saw the bailiff at the door. 

Oh, why was the bailiff’s voice so terrible, 

And why the woman’s plaint so soft and low? 

‘T have three sons aU at the Niehch’eng post. 

And one just wrote a letter home to say 
The other two had in the battle died. 

Let those who live live on as best they can. 

For those who’ve died are dead for evermore. 

Now in the house there’s only grandson left; 

For him his mother still remains — ^without 
A decent patticoat to go about. 

Although my strength is ebbing weak and low. 

I’ll go with you, bailiff, in the front to serve. 

For I can cook congee for the army, and 
To-morrow I’ll march and hurry to the Hoyang front.” 

— So spake the woman, and in the night, the voice 
Became so low it broke into a whimper. 

And in the morning with the army she went; 

Alone she said good-bye to her old man. 

That is characteristic of the art of restraint and the feeling of 
sadness in Chinese poetry. It gives a picture, expresses a 
sentiment, and leaves the rest to the reader’s imagination. 


IX. Drama 

The Chinese drama occupies a mean position between 
classical literature and that body of literature which is nearer 
what the Western people mean by the term, namely, literature 
of the imagination. The latter, including the dramas and 
novels, was written in the pehkua or vernacular language, and 



LITERARY LIFE 


^45 

consequently was least ridden with classical standards, and 
constantly grew and profited from that freedom. Because 
Chinese dramatic composition happened to be largely poetry, 
it was accepted as literature on a higher level than the novels, 
and almost on a par with the T’ang lyrics. Scholars were less 
ashamed to be known as writing dramatic works than writing 
novels. On the whole, the authorship of dramas was not 
anonymous or subject to debate like the authorship of novels. 

From now on we shall see how that body of imaginative 
literature constantly grew in beauty and importance until it 
compelled recognition in modem times on its own merits, and 
exerted an influence over the people as no classical literature 
ever succeeded in doing. 

This hybrid character of the Chinese drama accounts for 
its peculiar composition and also for its great popular influence. 
The Chinese drama is a combination of dialogues in the spoken 
language, which on the whole is readily intelligible to the 
populace, and songs which are sung and often partake of a 
high poetic quality. Its nature is therefore entirely diflFerent 
from that of the conventional English play. The songs come 
in at short interv’-als and are more in prominence than the 
spoken parts. As is natural, the comic plays are more in 
dialogue, while the tragedies or dramas of human loves and 
sorrows more often burst out into songs. Actually, the theatre 
is attended, from the point of view of the Chinese Aeatre-goer, 
more for its singing than for its acting. One speaks of going to 
^‘listen*’ to a play, rather than to “see” it. It would seem, 
therefore, that the translation of the Chinese word hsi as 
“drama” is misleading, and it would be more proper to speak 
of it as Chinese “opera.” 

Only by understanding the Chinese hsi as a form of opera 
will its wide appeal to the people, as well as the peculiarities 
of its composition, be truly understood. For the appeal of the 
drama — especially of the modem English drama — is largely 
an appeal to the understanding, while the opera makes a 
combined appeal to the senses of colour, voice, atmosphere 
and emotion. The medium of the drama is Ae spoken language, 
but that of the opera is music and the song, A theatre-goer 
who attends a play expects to follow a story which pleases him 



246 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

by its conflicts of character and its surprises and novelty of 
action, and an opera-goer is prepared to spend an evening 
during which his intellect is appropriately benumbed and his 
senses soothed by music and colour and song. 

This accounts for the fact that most dramatic performances 
are not worth attending a second time, although people go to 
the same operas for the fiftieth time without losing the edge of 
their keen enjoyment. Thus it is with the Chinese theatre. 
The so-called chinghsi (^Teking plays’’) has a general repertoire 
of less than a hundred pieces which are played over and over 
again without losing their popularity. And the people applaud 
by shouting invariably at the arias which have the 

most intense or intricate musical appeal. Music is therefore 
the soul of the Chinese drama, and acting is merely an accessory 
to the technique of the opera-singer, and remains on essentially 
the same level as that of Western prima donnas. 

The Chinese opera-goer, therefore, appraises the Chinese 
actor under the two categories of his ‘‘singing” [cKang) and his 
“acting” {chuo). But this so-called “acting” is often purely 
technical and consists of certain conventional ways of expressing 
emotions — ^in the West, what is to us the shockingly inartistic 
heaving and swelling of the prima donna’s chest, and in the 
East, what is to Occidentals the ludicrous wiping of a tearless 
eye by a long sleeve. If the actor has personal charm and beauty 
and a good voice, this modicum of acting is always enough to 
satisfy the audience. But when well done, every gesture may 
be beautiful and every pose a perfect tableau. In this sense, 
the popular appreciation of Mei Lanfang by Americans is 
essenti^y correct, although how much of his singing is 
appreciated as singing may be questioned. One marvels at 
his beautiful poses and gestures, his graceful, white fingers, his 
long black eyebrows, his feminine gait, his flirtatious side 
glances and the whole outfit of his fake sex-appeal — the same 
fake sex-appeal which ingratiates him with the Chinese 
audience and is at the back of his tremendous popularity in 
China. When done by so great an artist, this appe^ is universal, 
for it speaks the language of gestures, which is international as 
music and dancing are international. So far as real acting in 
the modem sense of the word is concerned, Mei Lanfang may 



LITERARY LIFE 247 

appropriately leam the A B Cs from Norma Shearer or Ruth 
Ghatterton. When he holds a whip and pretends to be riding 
on horseback or when he plays at paddling a boat, his acting 
is neither better nor worse than that of my five-year-old 
daughter who plays at horse-riding by trailing a bamboo stick 
between her thighs. 

If we study the construction of the Yiian and subsequent 
dramas, we shall find that the plot, as with Western operas, 
is often of the flimsiest character, the dialogue unimportant, 
while the songs occupy the centre of the play. In actual 
performances, very often popular selections from the operas, 
rather than the entire plays, are given, in the same manner 
that operatic selections are rendered in Western musical 
concerts. The audience knows the stories by heart, and the 
characters are recognized by their conventional masks and 
costumes rather than by the contents of the dialogue. The 
first Yiian dramas, as we see them in extant works of the masters, 
consisted, with a few exceptions, of four acts. The songs in 
each act were sung to a definite set of tunes in a well-known 
musical suite. The dialogues were unimportant, and in many 
existing copies they are left out, which is probably because the 
dialogue part was largely spoken extempore. 

In the so-called ‘^northern dramas” the songs in each act 
were sung by the same person, although many actors took 
part in the acting and the spoken dialogue (a limitation 
probably due to the scarcity of singing talent) . In the “southern 
dramas” the limitations of dramatic technique were much less 
rigid; there was a great deal more freedom, and from these 
dramas were evolved the longer plays which in the Ming 
Dynasty were known as cKuasichi, The number of acts (corres- 
ponding in length to the “scenes” in English plays) was no 
longer limited to four, different rhymes could be used in 
songs of the same act, several singers could sing in alternation 
or in unison in the same act, and the tunes themselves were 
different from those used in the northern dramas, being of the 
type which gives long modulations over single syllables. 

Of such dramas, the Western Chamher {Hsihsian^ and Autumn 
in the Han Palace (Hankungch^iu^ portraying the story of the 
exiled imperial concubine Chao Ghiin), may be taken as 



248 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

representative of the northern dramas, while the Moon Pavilion 
{Paiyilekfing) and the Romance of the Guitar {P'ip'achi) may be 
as representative of the southern dramas. The Westrni 
Chamber, although consisting of twenty acts, was strictly in the 
nature of a dramatic sequence of five plays, with four acts in 
each. 

There is one difference between Chinese and Western opera. 
While in the West the opera is the privilege of the classes, 
very often attended for its social glitter and out of an "opera 
complex” rather than for real musical appreciation, so far as 
the occupants of the “golden horseshoe” are concerned, the 
Chinese operas are the mental food of the poor. Deeper than 
any other literary art, the operas have gone down to the hearts 
of the people. Imagine a people whose masses know the airs 
of Tarmhauser and 'Tristan und Isolde and Pinafore by heart, 
gaily them in the streets and at all odd moments, and 

you have a picture of the relation between Chinese operas and 
the Chinese masses. There is a type of mama in China, un- 
known in the West, called hsimi or “opera mama,” and one 
may often see a maniac of the lower class, with fehevelled 
hair and clad in tatters, singing the airs of rungcRengchi and 
acting the part of the great Chuko Liang in the streets of old 


Foreign visitors at Chinese theatres are often struck by the 
excruciating noise emanating from the gongs and drums in 
military plays and the equally nerve-racking falsetto of male 
singers, while the Chinese evidently cannot live wthout them. 
This must, on the whole, be credited to Chinese nerves, 
although the theory seems to be counter-evidenced by the 
apparent comfort with which Americans tolerate squeaks from 
the saxophone and other sound-madness firom the jazz bmd 
which set any Chinese gentleman’s nerves on end. It is possibly 
aU a question of adaptation. But the origin of the drums and 
gongs and the falsetto can only be rmderstood in the light of 
Chinese theatre surroundings. 

The Chinese theatre of the better type was built in a yard 
like the Elizabethan, theatre. In most cases, however, the 
stages consisted of temporary wooden racks, built high above 
the ground in the open, or sometimes right across a thorough- 



LITERARY LIFE 


2249 

fare, to be taken down immediately after the occasion. The 
theatre was therefore in the open and the actors had to compete 
with the peddlers’ cries, the barbers’ tuning forks, the maJt- 
sugar sellers’ small gongs, the shouting of men, women and 
children and the barking of dogs. Above such a din, only a 
thin falsetto keyed in a high pitch could have been heard, as 
anybody may verify for himself. The gongs and drums were 
also used as a means of attracting attention; they always 
preceded the plays and could be heard a mile away, thus 
serving the purpose of street posters for the movies. When 
staged in a modem theatre building, the volume of noise thus 
produced is truly terrific, but somehow the Chinese have 
adapted themselves to it, as the Americans have adapted them- 
selves to jazz. They want noise and they want life to get a 
“kick” out of it. Time will erase all this, and Chinese theatrical 
shows will eventually be tamed and “civilized” when they are 
housed in modem theatre buildings. 

From a purely literary point of view, Chinese dramatic 
works contain a type of poetry which far surpasses the T’ang 
lyrics in power and beauty. It is my firm belief that, lovely as 
the T’ang poetry is, we have to go to the dramas and the odd 
dramatic songs {hsiaotiao) to find some of China’s greatest 
poetry. For classical poetry moves more or less along certain 
traditional patterns of thought and style. It has a cultivated, 
super-refined technique, but it lacks grandeur and power and 
richness. The feeling one gets on turning from classical poetry 
to poetry in the dramas (and Chinese dramas are essentially 
regarded, as has been pointed out, as a collection of poems) 
is like turning from an exquisite plum branch in a vase to one’s 
ontside garden, so much superior in freshness, richness and 
variety. 

Chinese lyrics are dainty, but never long and never very 
powerful. By their very terseness, narrative and descriptive 
passages are necessarily limited in character. In the dramas 
the scope and style of poetry are diflferent. Words are used 
which would have been scoflFed at by the court critics as vulgar. 
Images arise, and dramatic situations are presented which 
call for a wider range of literary power and which clearly would 
lie outside the province of the lyric. Human emotions reach a 



250 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

height unattainable by the exquisite quatrains or eight lines. 
The language itself, which is &e pehhua^ being free from the 
classical bondage, achieves a freedom, naturalness and virility 
entirely undreamed of before. It is a language taken raw from 
the people’s mouths, and shaped into beauty by writers who 
felt themselves free of the classical standards and who relied 
solely on their artistic sense of sound and rhythm. Some 
masters of the Yuan drama used a iz.'w patois with an inimitable 
beauty of its own, which defies all translation either into 
modem Chinese or into any foreign language. It can only be 
suggested in the following: 


Muzzy, dizzy, lackadaisical, I’m squatting smug-smugly on 
an earthen divan. 

Clatter, patter, the old p^op^o is shaking her coarse-great-big 
grain-pan. 

Lousy, slouchy lies the donkey under the willow, his legs 
sprawling, 

Lapping, patting, that coolie’s hand on the donkey’s neck is 
pawing. 

Oh, wake up a while! 

Oh, wake up a while! 

Time like a bullet past a window is flying! 

— Ma Chihyiian: Huangliangmeng. 

i 

Writers of dramatic poetry had to conform to the exigences 
of the operatic airs, but the lines were longer, the insertioi^ of 
extra syllables was allowed and the rhythm was broader and 
more suitable to the vernacular language in which it was 
written. The liberation of metre achieved in the Sung t^u 
originating in songs and set to these airs, already provid^ for 
a metre of irregular lengths, obeying the rhythm of the spoken 
rather than the written language. This metre was still more 
emancipated m the dramas. As an approximate example of 
this irregular metre, I give here an English rendering of 
passages in the Western Chamber (a masterpiece of the first order 
in Chinese literature), which describe the beauty of Inging, 
the heroine; 



LITERARY LIFE 


251 


Before she spoke, she had reddened, 

Like a cherry ripe-broken, 

Like a statue white, molten; 

In a moment. 

She’d have spoken 
A string of notes sweet and golden. 

When she turned sideways, her beauty was described in the 
following manner: 

Sideways inclining. 

Her jade hair-pin declining. 

Brows d la palace like the new moon reclining, 

Into her black velvet temples resigning. 

When she moved it was described: 

Now she moves her steps, cunning, pretty, 

Her waist soft like a southern ditty. 

So gracefully slender. 

So helplessly tender, 

Like weeping willows before a zephyr giddy. 

It is interesting to note here that rhythm as understood in 
Chinese dramatic poetry and in Chinese music is difierent 
from the regular rhythm in Western poetry and music. There 
is no reason why the two fundamental metres of twos and 
threes should not be used in some kind of regular combination 
in English poetry. This has been done with great success in 
the Sung tz^u and Ytian dramas, producing a more modulated 
rhythm than the straight use of twos or threes throughout the 
line. The idea is worth experiment by some qualified English 
poets. 

Through its immense popularity the theatre has achieved a 
place in the national Chinese life very nearly corresponding to 
its logical place in an ideal republic. Apart from teaching the 
people an intense love of music, it has taught the Chinese 
people, over ninety per cent of whom are illiterate, a knowledge 
3f history truly amazing, crystallizing, as it were, the folklore 



252 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

and entire historical and literary tradition in plays of characters' 
that have captured the heart and imagination of the common 
men and women. Thus any amah has a liveher conception than 
I have of many historic^ heroes like Kuan Y% Liu Pei, 
Ts’ao Ts’ao, Hsueh Jenkwei, Hstieh Tingshan and Yang 
Kweifei from her intimate knowledge of Chinese plays, as I was 
prevented from attending the theatres in my childhood through 
my missionary education, and had to learn it all piecemeal from 
the cold pages of history books. Before my teens I knew 
Joshua^s trumpets blew down the walls of Jericho, but I did 
not know until I was about thirty that when Mengchiangnii 
cried over the bones of her husband who had died building the 
Great Wall in conscript labour, the torrent of her tears washed 
away a section of the Great Wall. This is a type of ignorance 
that cannot be found among the illiterate Chinese. 

But the theatre, besides popularizing history and music 
among the people, has an equally important cultural function 
in providing the people with all their moral notions of good and 
evU. Practically all the standardized Chinese notions of loyal 
ministers and filial sons and brave warriors and faithful wives 
and chaiste maidens and intriguing maid-servants af e reflected 
in the current Chinese plays. Represented in the form of 
stories with human characters, whom they hate or love as the 
case may be, they sink deep into their moral consciousness. 
Ts’ao Ts’ao’s hypocrisy, Min Tzu’s filial piety, Wenchiin’s 
romance, Inging’s passion, Yang Kweifei’s pampered tastes, 
Gh’in Kwei’s treason. Yen Sung’s greed and cruelty, Chuko 
Liang’s strategy, Chang Fei’s quick temper, and M^ulien’s 
religious sanctity — ^they all .become associated in the Chinese 
minds with their ethical tradition and become their concrete 
conceptions of good and evil conduct. 

The story of the Romance of the Guitar {P^ip^acht) is given here 
to show the type of moral influence of the theatre in general on 
the Chinese public and as an example of the kind of story, with 
a direct appeal to domestic loyalty, that has captured the 
popular fancy. It is distinguished neither for dramatic unity 
in the modem sense, being composed of forty-two acts and the 
action extending over years, nor for delicacy of imagination 
which is better shown in The Peony Pavilion {MoutantHng)^ 



LITERARY LIFE 


253 

nor for poetic beauty which is better shown in the Western 
Chamber (Hsihsiang), nor for grandeur of passion as in The Hall 
of Longevity {Ch^angshengtien). But the Romance of the Guitar 
nevertheless holds its o^vn in popularity by its sheer appeal to the 
beauty of domestic love and loyalty, which always finds a 
warm place in the Chinese heart. Its influence is more truly 
typical. 

There was a talented scholar of the Han Dynasty whose name 
was Ts’ai Yung. Because his parents were old, he forsook all 
ambitions for a political career and was content to stay with 
his parents at home. He had just married a girl, Chao Wuniang, 
and the play opens with a scene of their happy family feast in 
their garden in spring. There was, however, an imperial edict 
calling for literary talents in the country, and the magistrate 
had reported Ts’ai’s name to the court. This meant a trip to 
the capital and long years of absence, and there was a struggle 
between loyalty to the Emperor and filial piety and wedded 
love. His old father, in a spirit of self-sacrifice, urged him to go, 
while his mother, with her sounder common sense, opposed. 
Ts’ai finally had to go, leaving his aged parents in the care of 
his young bride and a good friend by the name of Chang. 

Ts’ai was successful in his examinations, coming out as the 
first scholar of the land. Then trouble began. For the prime 
minister Niu had an only daughter, a beautiful and talented 
girl, whom he loved more than anything else on earth. Ts’ai 
was forced into marris^e with her aggiinst his wish, and on their 
wedding night, with all worldly glory before him, his happiness 
was marred by the thought of Chao Wuniang. The ministers 
daughter foimd out the truth and planned with her husband 
to ask permission to go home and see their parents, but her 
father was greatly angered and would not hear of it. 

In the meanwhile the conditions at home were going from 
bad to worse. Chao Wuniang was the only one supporting the 
family by her handiwork, and there came a famine. Luckily 
there was famine relief from the public grainage, and Chao 
received her share. On her way home, however, she was robbed 
of her rice, and was going to jump into an old well when she 
thought of her responsibility toward the old people and desisted. 
Then she went to see Chang, Ts’ai’s friend, to borrow a handful 



254 COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

of rice to feed her parents with, while she herself ate the husks 
in secret. The passage where she sings about the husks, com- 
paring them to herself, parted from the rice which was com- 
pared to her husband, is by consensus of opinion the most 
moving part of the whole story. 

Soon, however, the parents found this out and asked her 
forgiveness for past complaints against the thin meals. But 
old Mrs. Ts’ai soon died, and old Ts’ai himself fell ill. She 
nursed him through his illness, and when he, too, died, she cut 
off her hair and sold it to defray part of the funeral expenses. 
With the help of her good friend Chang, she built her father- 
in-law^s grave with her own hands. Tired and hungry, she 
lay down on the ground beside the grave, and in her dream she 
saw that the God of the Earth had taken pity on her and sent 
two spirits, the White Monkey and the Black Tiger, to help her 
in the work. When she awoke she found, to her great joy and 
surprise, that the grave had been finished, and she told the 
story to Chang. 

Chang then advised her to set out to the capital in search of 
her husband. So she painted a portrait of her husband, and 
disguising herself as a nun, she begged her way to the capital, 
carrying a guitar. Going through all kinds of hardships, she 
finally arrived at Loyang, and it happened there was a Buddhist 
celebration at a temple, where she therefore went and hung her 
husband’s picture in public. Ts’ai, the bridegroom, happened 
to come to the temple to pray for his parents, and recognizing 
his own picture had it taken home. Chao Wuniang appeared 
the next day at Ts’ai’s home as a nun, begging for alms. She 
was accepted by the prime minister’s daughter, who sweetly 
conspired with her to test her husband’s heart. They were then 
happily reunited, and the play ends with the two wives officially 
honoured by the Emperor himself. 

Such are the elements which make a popular play in China. 
The story has that element of nobility which makes it popular 
with the Chinese as the society’s doings are popular with 
English newspaper readers. It has an official examination, 
which plays such an important part in the changes of fortune 
in all Chinese stories. But more than that it shows a faithful 
wife and devoted daughter, a pair of aged parents in need of 



L I T E R A R Y L I F E 255 

care, a true friend in trouble, a model madame who was not 
jealous of her rival, and finally a high official somewhat in love 
with his own power and glory. These are some of the elements 
in the Chinese drama on which the public are fed, the same 
elements that make moving pictures like Way Down East and 
Over the Hill great popular hits in China. They also show the 
Chinese as a profoundly emotional people, with a weakness for 
sentimental plots. 


X. The Novel 

Chinese novelists were afraid to let people know that they 
could condescend to such a thing as the writing of novels. 
Take the case of a comparatively recent work, Tehsao PaqyeUy 
written by Hsia Erhming in the eighteenth century. He wrote 
very original essays and beautiful poetry, and many travel and 
biographical sketches like all conventional scholars, now col- 
lected in Huanytihsienchi. But he also wrote the Tehsao Paoyen^ 
and his authorship of this novel can be proved beyond a doubt 
through poems and essays in his collected works. However, as 
late as the autumn of 1890 his dutiful great-grandson reprinted 
the Huanyuksienchi in order to perpetuate Hsia’s name, but he 
dared not or would not, anyway did not, include the novel, 
incontrovertibly Hsia's best work, in the list of his literary 
works. Only as late as 1917 did Dr. Hu Shih definitdy establish 
and clarify the authorship of the Red Chamber Dream as written 
by Ts^’ao Hsuehch'in, undoubtedly one of the greatest, if not 
the greatest master of Chinese prose (in pehhua). We still do not 
know who was the true author of ChinpHnmei {Gold-Vase-Plum) ^ 
and we are still in doubt as to which of the two alleged authors, 
Shih Nai-an or Lo Kuanchung, was the author of All Men 
Are Brothers. 

Characteristic of this attitude toward the novel are the 
beginning and ending of the Red Chamber Dream. A Taoist 
monk found the story inscribed on a huge rock, which was the 
extra one left behind by the legendary goddess Nuwo when she 
was using rocks to mend a huge crack in the sky, 

caused by a terrific fight of “Olympian” giants. This rock was 



256 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

one hundred and twenty feet high and two hundred and forty 
feet wide. The Taoist monk copied the story from the rock 
inscriptions^ and when it came to Ts’ao Hstiehch’in’s hands he 
worked at it for ten years and revised it five times, dividing it 
into chapters, and he wrote a verse on it: 

These pages tell of babbling nonsense, 

A string of sad tears they conceal. 

They aU laugh at the author’s folly; 

But who could know its magic appeal? 

At the end of the story, when one of the most tragic and deeply 
human dramas was enacted, and the hero had become a monk 
and the soul which had given him intelligence and capacity 
for love and suffering had returned to the rock as Ntiwo left it 
thousands of years ago, the same Taoist monk reappeared. 
This monk is said to have copied the story again and one day 
he came to the author’s study and put the manuscripts in his 
care. Ts’ao Hsiiehch’in replied, laughingly: “This is only 
babbling nonsense. It is good for killing time with a few good 
friends after a wine-feast or while chatting under the lamp-light. 
If you ask me how I happen to know the hero of the story, and 
want all the details, you are taking it too seriously.” Hearing 
what he said, the monk threw the manuscripts down on his 
table and went away laughing, tossing his head and mumbling 
as he went: “Really it contains only babbling nonsense. Both 
the author himself and the man who copies it, as well as its 
readers, do not know what is behind it all. This is only a 
literary pastime, written for pleasure and self-satisfaction.” 
And it is said that, later on, someone wrote the following verse 
on it: 

When the story is sad and touching, 

Then sadder is its tomfoolery. 

But we are all in the same dream, 

Do not sneer at its buffoonery. 

But the tomfoolery, sad and touching as it was, was extremely 
good. Because such literature was written for pleasure and 



LITERARY LIFE 


257 

sdf-satisfaction, its creation was determined by a true creative 
impulse and not by love of money or fame. And because it was 
ostracized literature in respectable circles, it escaped the banal 
influence of all classical, conventional standards. So far i&om 
giving the author money or fame, the authorship of a novel 
could endanger a scholar’s personal safety. 

At Kiangyin, the home of Shih Nai-an, the author of All Men 
Are Brothers, there is still a legend about what Shih did in 
order to get himself out of trouble. In this legend, Shih was 
credited with the gift of foreknowledge of events. He had 
written this novel, and was living in retirement, having refused 
to serve the new Ming Dynasty. One day the Emperor came 
with Liu Powen, Shih’s classmate and now the Emperor’s 
right-hand man. Liu saw the manuscripts of this novel on his 
table, and recognizing Shih’s superior talent, Liu plotted for his 
ruin. It was a time when the security of the new dynasty was 
not yet ensured, and Shih’s novel, advocating as it did the 
common "‘brotherhood of all men,” including the robbers, 
contained rather dangerous thoughts. So one day, on this 
basis, Liu petitioned the Emperor to have Shih summoned to 
the capital for trial. When the warrant came, Shih knew that 
his manuscripts had been stolen and realized that it would mean 
his death, so he borrowed five hundred taels from a friend with 
which to bribe the boatman and asked the latter to make the 
voyage as slowly as possible. Therefore on the way to Nanking 
he hurriedly composed a fantastic supematur^ novel, the 
Fengshenpang,^ in order to convince the Emperor of his insanity. 
Under this cover of insanity, Shih saved his own life. 

Thus surreptitiously the novel grew, like a wayward flower, 
casting its glance on the lonely wayfarer in a sheer efibrt to 
please. Like the wayward flower, too, impressivdy growing on 
the surface of a barren rock, it grew without cultivation, and it 
gave without expecting return, from a sheer inner creative 
impulse. Sometimes such a flower gives only a single blossom 
in a quarter of a century, but how that blossom shines! That 
blossom seems to be the justification for its existence; it has 
drained its life-blood and having blossomed, the flower dies. 
Such is the origin of all good tales and all good novels. So did 

1 The anthorship of this nov^ is really unkno^ro. 



258 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Cervantes write, and so did Boccaccio, out of the sheer delight 
of creation. Money had nothing to do with it. Even in modem 
times, where there are royalties and copyright protection, 
money is purely an accident. No amount of money can make 
an uncreative mind tell a good story. A secure living made the 
writing by our creative minds possible, but a secure hving never 
created anything. Money sent Charles Dickens on his American 
tour, but money could not produce a David Copperjield, Our 
great story-tellers, like Defoe and Fielding and SMh Nai-an 
and Ts’ao Hsiiehch’in, wrote because they had a story to tell 
and because they were born story-tellers. Nature seemed to 
have placed Ts’ao Hsiiehch’in in a fabulously luxurious home 
surrounding and then blasted this life all into nothingness, so 
that in his old age, as a bankrupt scholar and in his decrepit 
hut, he could recall it all like an awakened dreamer, and having 
relived that dream in his imagination, he felt compelled to put 
it down as he relived it, and we call it literature. 

I regard the Red Chamber Dream as one of the world’s master- 
pieces. Its character-drawing, its deep and rich humanity, its 
perfect finish of style and its story entitle it to that. Its charac- 
ters live, more real and more familiar to us than our living 
friends, and each speaks an accent which we can recognize. 
Above all, it has what we call a great story; 

A fabulously beautiful Chinese house-garden; a great official 
family, with four daughters and a son growing up and some 
beautiful female cousins of the same age, living a life of con- 
tinual raillery and bantering laughter; a number of extremely 
charming and clever maid-servants, some of the plotting, 
intriguing type and some quick-tempered but true, and some 
secretly in love with the master; a few faithless servants’ wives 
involved in little family jealousies and scandals; a father for 
ever absent firom home on official service and two or three 
daughters-in-law managing the complicated routine of the 
whole household with order and precision, the ablest, most 
gifted, most garrulous and most beloved of all, Fengchieh, 
being enfirely illiterate; the “hero,” Paoyii, a boy in puberty, 
with a fair intelligence and a great love of female company, 
sent, as we axe made to understand, by God to go through this 
phantasmagoria of love and suffering, overprotected like the 



LITERARY LIFE 


259 

sole heir of all great families in China, doted on by his grand- 
mother, the highest authority of the household, but extremely 
afraid of his father, completely admired by all his female 
cousins and catered for by his maid-servants, who attended to 
his bath and sat in watch over him at night; his love for Taiyii, 
his orphan cousin staying in their house, who was suffering from 
consumption and was fed on birds’-nest soup, easily outshining 
the rest in beauty and poetry, but a little too clever to be happy 
like the more stupid ones, opening her love to Paoyii with the 
purity and intensity of a young maiden’s heart; another female 
cousin, Paots’a, also in love with Paoyii, but plumper and more 
practical-minded and considered a better vsdfe by the elders; 
the final deception, eirrangements for the wedding to Paots’a 
by the mothers without Paoyii’s or Taiyii’s knowledge, Taiyii 
not hearing of it until shortly before the wedding, which made 
her laugh hysterically and sent her to her death, and Paoyii 
not hearing of it till the wedding night; Paoyii’s discovery of 
the deception by his own parents, his becoming half-idiotic 
and losing his mind, and finally his becoming a monk. 

All of this is depicted against the rise and fall of a great 
family, the crescendo of piling family misfortunes extending 
over the last third of the story, taking one’s breath away like 
the Fall of the House of Usher. Its heyday of pleasure was 
passed; bankruptcy hung in the air; instead of a wine-feast 
under the mid-autumn moon, we hear ghosts wailing in the 
silent courtyard; the beautiful girls grew up and married off 
into different homes with different luck; Paoyii’s personal 
maid-servants were sent away and married, and the most 
devoted one, Gh’ingwen, died chaste and true. The phantas- 
magoria vanished. 

If, as some Chinese critics say, the Red Chamber Dream could 
ruin a country, it should have ruined China long ago. Taiyii 
and Paots’a have become the nation’s sweethearts, and a num- 
ber of other typ^ are there, too: the impetuous Ch’ingwen, the 
fe m i n i n e Hsijen, the romantic Hsiangyiin, the womanly 
T’anch’un, the garrulous Fengchieh, the talented Miaoyti, 
all there for one to settle one’s choice upon, each representing a 
different type. The easiest way to find out a Chinaman’s 
temperament is to ask him whether he likes Taiyii more or 



26 o my country and my people 

Paots’a more. If he prefers Taiyii, he is an idealist, and if he 
prefers Paots’a, he is a realist. If he likes Ch’ingwen, he will 
probably become a good writer, and if he likes Hsiangyun, he 
should equally admire Li Po’s poetry. I like T’anch’un, who 
has the combination of Taiyu’s and Paots’a’s qualities, and 
who was happily married and became a good wife. The 
character of PaoyU is decidedly weak, and far from desirable as 
a “hero” to be worshipped by young men, but whether 
desirable or not, the Chinese, men and women, have most of 
t b^m read the novel seven or eight times over, and a science 
has developed which is called “redology” [hunghsueh, from 
Red Chamber Dream), comparable in dignity and volume to the 
Shakespeare or Goethe commentaries. 

The Red Chamber Dream represents probably the height of the 
art of writing novels in China, all things considered, but it 
represents also only one type of novel. Briefly, Chinese novels 
may be classified into the following types, according to their 
contents. Their best-known representative works are given 
below: 

1. The novel of adventure: Shuihu Ckuan {All Men Are 

Brothers). 

2. The supernatural novel or tale of wonder: Hsiyuchi. 

3. The historical novel: Three Kingdoms. 

4. The love romance: Red Chamber Dream. 

5. The pornographic novel: Chinp'inmei {Gold-Vase-Plutn). 

6. The novel of social satire: Julinwaishih. 

7. The novel of ideas: ChingkuayUan. 

8. The novel of social manners: Strange Things of the Last 

Twenty Tears. 

A strict classification is, of course, difficult. The Gold-Vase-Plum, 
for ii3Stance, although four-fifths pornographic, is probably the 
best novd. of social manners in its ruthless and vivid portrayal 
of common characters, the gentry and the “local rich,” and 
particularly of the position of women in Chinese society of the 
Ming Period. To these novels proper we should have to add 
tales and short stories in the broad sense, which have a very 
long tradition, best represented by Liaotsai {Strange Stories from 



LITERARY LIFE 


261 


a Chinese Studio) and Chinku CKihian {Madame Chuang^s Incon- 
stancy and Other Tales) ^ the last representing the best collection 
of old popular stories that have come down through the ages. 

I have grouped these more or less in the order of their 
popular influence. A catalogue of common novels in ^‘cir- 
culating libraries’^ on the street would show that novels of 
adventure, in Chinese called “novels of chivalry,” easily top 
the list. A strange phenomenon this, of course, in a society 
where chivalric, dare-devil deeds are so often discouraged by 
teachers and parents. Yet psychologically it is most easy to 
explain. In China chivalric sons, who are likely to involve 
their families in trouble with the police or the magistrate, have 
been driven out of the home into the gutter, and chivalric 
citizens who are too public-spirited and who must meddle in 
other people’s affairs, when they see injustice done to the poor 
or the helpless, have been driven out of society into the “green 
forests” (a term for bandits) . For if the parents do not “break” 
them, they are likely to break their families, owing to the 
absence of constitutional protection. A man who insists on 
seeing justice done to the poor and oppressed in a society with- 
out constitutional protection must indeed be a hero of the 
“unbreakable” sort. It is obvious that those who remain in 
the home and in respectable society are the type that is not 
worth the trouble of “breaking” at all. These “good citizens” 
of China therefore admire the sons of the forest very much as 
helpl^ women admire the he-man with a swarthy face, an 
unshaven beard and a hairy chest. What is more easy and more 
exciting than for a consumptive lying in bed to read All Men 
Are Brothers and admire the prowess and exploits of Li Kuei? 
And it should be remembered that Chinese novels ctre always 
read in bed. 

The tale of wonder or novel of supernatural beings, involving 
fights of giants and fairies, covers a large store of folk tradition 
that lies very close to the Chinese heart. In the chapter on the 
“Chinee Mind” it has been pointed out how, in the Chinese 
mind, the supernatural is always mixed with the real. The 
Hsiyucki, translated in outline by Dr. Timothy Richards in A 
Mission to Heaven^ describes the exploits and adventures of the 
monk Hsiiantsang in his pilgrimage to India, in the company 



202 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

of three extremely lovable semi-human beings, Sun the 
Monkey, Ghu the Pig, and the Monk Sand. It is not an 
original creation, but is based on a religious folk legend. The 
most lovable and popular character is of course Sun the Monkey, 
who represents the mischievous human spirit, eternally aiming 
at the impossible. He ate the forbidden peach in heaven as 
Eve ate the forbidden apple in Eden, and he was finally chained 
under a rock for five hundred years as Prometheus was chained. 
By the time the decreed period was over, Hsuantsang came and 
released him, and he was to undertake the journey, fighting 
all the devils and strange creatures on the way, as an atone- 
ment for his sins, but his mischievous spirit always remained, 
and his development represents a struggle between the unruly 
human spirit and the holy way. He had on his head an iron 
crown, and whenever he committed a transgression, Hsiian- 
tsang’s incantation would cause the crown to press on his head 
until his head was ready to burst with pain. At the same time 
Ghu the Pig represents the animal desires of men, which are 
gradually chastened by religious experience. The conflict 
of such desires and temptations in a highly strange journey 
undertaken by a company of such imperfect and highly human 
characters produces a continual series of comical situations 
and exciting battles, aided by supernatural weapons and magic 
powers. Sun the Monkey had stuck away in his ear a wand 
which could at will be transformed into any length he desired, 
and, moreover, he had the ability to pull out hairs on his 
monkey legs and transform them into any number of small 
monkeys to harass his enemies, and he could change himself 
into a cormorant or a sparrow or a fish or a temple, with the 
windows for his eyes, the door for his mouth and the idol for 
his tongue, ready to gobble up the hostile monster in case he 
should cross the threshold of the temple. Such a fight between 
Sun the Monkey and a supernatural spirit, both capable of 
changing themselves, chasing each other in the air, on earth, 
and in the water, should not fail to interest any children or 
grown-ups. who are not too old to enjoy Mickey Mouse. 

This love of the supernatural is not confined to the tale of 
wonder, but finds its way to all types of novels, invalidating 
in parts even such a first-class novel as the Tehsao Faojen^ which 



LITERARY LIFE 


1263 

is a novel of adventure and home love combined. It has 
invalidated Chinese tales of mystery, as in the Paokung An 
{Cases of Paokung)^ and makes the development of the detective 
story impossible, which is due also to such causes as the lack 
of scientific reasoning and the cheapness of Chinese lives. For 
when a Chinese dies the general conclusion is that he is dead, 
and that is final. The Chinese detective, Paokung, who is, by 
the way, a magistrate himself, solves his mysteries and murders 
always by visions in dreams instead of by Sherlock Holmes’s 
reasoning. 

In looseness of plot, the Chinese novel is like the novels of 
D. H. Lawrence, and in length like the Russian novels of 
Tolstoy and Dostoievsky. The similarity between Chinese and 
Russian novels is quite apparent. Both have an extremely 
realistic technique, both revel in details, both content them- 
selves with telling the story without the subjectivity charac- 
teristic of the novels of Western Europe. Fine psychological 
portrayal there is, but there is very little room for the author 
to expand over hi psychological knowledge. The story is told 
primarily as a story. In unmitigated delineation of stark 
depravity, too, the Gold-Vase-Plum has nothing to lose by com- 
parison with The BTOthers Karamazov, The plot is generally 
best in the class described as love romances, but in the novel 
of social manners, which has been in vogue in the last three 
decades, the plot wanders and disperses into a series of badly 
connected anecdote and short stories inter^ting in them- 
selves. The short story itself did not even come into being 
until the very last decade, when modern writers are trying to 
create something similar to what they have read in Western 
literature in the original or in translation. 

On the whole, the tempo of the Chinese novel reflects very 
well the tempo of Chinese life. It is enormous, big and 
validated and is never in a hurry. The novel is avowedly 
created to kill time, and when there is plenty of time to kill 
and the reader in no hurry to catch a train, there is no reason 
why he must hurry to the end. A Chinese novel should be read 
slowly and with good temper. When there are flowers on the 
way, who is going to forbid the traveller from stopping 
to cull them? 



264 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


XL Influence of Western Literature 

When two cultures meet, it is natural and logical that the 
richer one should give and the other should take. It is true 
but it is sometimes hard to believe that it is more blessed to 
give than to take. China has apparently gained much in the 
last thirty years in literature and thought which must be en- 
tirely credited to Western influence. This acknowledgement 
of the general superiority of Western literature in richness came 
as something of a bad shock to the self-styled ‘‘hterary nation” 
that is China. Some fifty years ago the Chinese were impressed 
only by European gun-boats; some thirty years ago they were 
impressed by the Western political system; about twenty years 
ago they discovered that the West even had a very good litera- 
turCj and now some people are making the slow discovery that 
the West has even a better social consciousness and better 
social manners. 

That is a rather large morsel for an old and proud nation to 
swallow, but perhaps China is big enough to swallow it. 
Anyway, in literature the change has come. Chinese literature 
has undergone a more profound change in style and content 
than it ever went through in the past two thousand years. 
Directly due to the foreign influence, the spoken language has 
come into its own as a literary medium: the emancipation of 
the language has come from a man imbued with the Western 
spirit. Its vocabulary has been greatly enriched, which means 
the increase of new concepts, scientific, philosophical, artistic 
and literary, generally more exact and more well-defined than 
the old material of our thinking. With this enrichment of the 
raw material of our thought has come a change in style, which 
has been so modernized beyond recognition that old scholars 
find great difi&culty in following the new pattern and would be 
at a complete loss to write a magazine article that could be 
accepted regarding either style or content. New forms of 
literature, like the vers libre^ poems in prose, the short story and 
the nxodem drama have come into being, and the technique of 
writing novels has been greatly modified. Above all, the old 
standards of criticism, on the whole rather simi1a.r to those of 



LITERARY LIFE 265 

the French neo-classical school that made the appreciation of 
Shakespeare impossible for a century and a half in Europe, have 
been abandoned, and in their place we have a fresher, richer 
and broader literary ideal, which in the end must bring about 
a closer harmony between literature and life, a greater accuracy 
of thinking and a greater sincerity of living. 

Of course it is more blessed to give than to take. For with this 
change there has come chaos. Progress is fun, but progress is 
painful. More than that, progress is always ugly. With the 
profound intellectual upheaval that is going on in Young 
China’s minds, we have lost a centre of gravity in thought and 
we have lost a cheerful common sense. The task of adjustment 
between the old and the new is usually too much for the 
ordinary man, and modem Chinese thought is characterized 
by an extreme immaturity of thinking, fickleness of temper and 
shallowness of ideas. To understand the old is difficult, and 
to understand the new is not too easy. A little bit of roman- 
ticism, a tinge of libertinism, a lack of critical and mental 
ballast, extreme impatience with anything old and Chinese, 
extreme gullibility in accepting the yearly “new models” of 
thought, a perpetual hunt for the latest poet from Jugoslavia 
or the newest novelist firom Bulgaria, great sensitiveness toward 
foreigners in revealing anything Chinese, which simply means 
a lack of self-confidence, an eighteenth-century rationalism, 
fits of melancholia and hyper-enthusiasm, the chase of slogans 
from year to year like a dog biting its own tail — these charac- 
terize the writings of modem China. 

We have lost the gift of seeing life steadily and seeing life 
whole. To-day literature is clouded by politics, and writers are 
divided into two camps, one offering Fascism and the other 
offering Communism as a panacea for ail social ills, and there is 
probably as little real independence of thinking as there ever 
was in old China. With all the apparent emancipation of ideas, 
the old psychosis of the Grand Inquisition is still there, under 
the cloi of modem terms. For, after all, the Chinese love 
liberty as they love a foreign cocotte, for whom they have no 
real affection. These are the ugly features of the period of 
transition, and they in time wiU wear off, when China becomes 
politically better organized, and its soul has less sensitive q)ots« 



266 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

All these changes have come through the influence of Euro- 
pean literature. This influence is, of course, not confined to 
literature, for China has reaped in one harvest the j&nits of 
Western scholarship in philosophy, psychology, science 
technology, economics and all those things contained in the 
modern critical culture. Even foreign children’s games and 
songs and dances are now being introduced. The net positive 
result of its progress in literature has been summarized in the 
discussion on the literary revolution. This influence comes as a 
direct result of translations of European literature. A glance 
at the range and content of these translations would show the 
extent and, incidentally, the type of this influence. 

The ig 34 Yearbook of Chinese Publications (in Chinese) gives 
a list of these translations of poems, short stories and novels 
made in the last twenty-three years, covering twenty-six 
countries. This list is by no means complete, but will serve for 
our present purpose. Given in the order of the number of 
authors represented, they are as follows: England 47, France 38, 
Russia 36, Germany 30, Japan 30, United States 18, Italy 7, 
Norway 6, Poland 5, Spain 4, Hungary 3, Greece 3, Afnca 2, 
Jews 2, and the rest, Sweden, Belgium, Finland, Czecho- 
slovakia, Austria, Latvia, Bulgaria, Jugoslavia, Syria, Persia, 
India and Siam, represented by one author each. 

An examination of the translations from English authors 
shows that the novelists are represented by George Eliot, 
Fielding, Defoe (including Moll Flanders)^ Kingsley, Swift, 
Goldsmith, the Bronte sisters {Wuthering Heights and Villette)^ 
Scott, Conrad, Mrs. Gaskell and Dickens {Old Curiosity Skop^ 
David Copperfield^ Oliver Twisty Dombey and Son, Nicholas Nicklely, 
A Tale of Two Cities, Christmas Carol, Hard Times), Rider 
Haggard, through the influence of Lin Shu’s translations, has 
obtained a popularity entirely out of proportion with his 
standing. The poets are represented by Spenser {Faerie Qyeene), 
Browtiing, Bums, Byron, Shelley, Wordsworth, Ernest Dowson. 
Five of Shakespeare’s plays {Merchant of Venice, As You Like 
It, Twelfth Night,. Henry VI and Romeo and rather 

haphazard, as one can see} have been translated by separate 
translators. The drama is represented by Galsworthy (seven 
of his plays), Pinero, Jon^ Sheridan {School for Scandal) and 



LITERARY LIFE 


267 

Shaw {Airs, Warren^ s Profession^ Widowers^ Houses^ The Philanderer^ 
Arms and the Man^ Man and Superman and Pygmalion) . The Irish 
school is represented by Synge and Dnnsany, Essayists are 
represented by Lamb, Arnold Bennett and Max Beerbohm. 
James Barrie and Oscar Wilde have received a large share of 
attention; there are two translations of Lady Windermere's Fan 
and three translations of Salome; also Wilde’s Picture of Dorian 
Gray and De Profundis have been translated. H. G. Wells 
is Imown through his Time Machine^ Mr. Britling Sees It Through^ 
The First Alan in the Moon^ and especially through his Short 
History of the World, Thomas Hardy is only known through his 
short stories and poems, although his name is very familiar. 
Katherine Mansfield, through the influence of the late Hsu 
Tziimo, is rather well known. This list covers only authors 
whose translated works have appeared in book form and, of 
course, does not cover authors in other fields like Bertrand 
Russell, whose influence is very great. 

In the French section one comes across names like Balzac, 
Moliere, Maupassant (complete works), France (nine of his 
works; Thais twice translated), Gide, Voltaire {Candide)^ Rous- 
seau {Confessions and l£mile)^ Zola (poorly represented), 
Gautier, Flaubert {Madame Bovary thrice translated, Salammbd 
and Un Coeur Simple) . Dumas phe et fils have long been popular, 
especially La Dame aux Camdlias^ which has become common 
property among the Chinese. Hugo is well represented by 
Les Travailleurs de la mer^ Les Miserables, Afotre-Dame de Paris, 
Quatre-vingt-treize, Hernani^ Ruy Blas^ and Lucrece Borgia, The 
early romanticists are represented by Chateaubriand {Atola and 
Ren£) and Bernardine de Saint-Pierre. Daudet’s Sappho and 
Prevost’s Manon Lescaut are, of course, favourites. Baudelaire is 
well known, and Rostand’s Cyrano has its devotee. Barbusse 
has two translations of his novels Le Feu and Clarti^ and even 
the long Jean Christophe of RoUand is now available in Chinese, 
besides his Le Montespan, Pierre et Luce and Le Jen de P amour ei 
de la mort. 

Classical German literature is represented, of course, by 
Gtoethe, among whose works Faust, Werther (two translations), 
Egmonty ClamgOy Stella and part of Wilhelm Mdster have been 
translated, and Schiller {Die Jungfrau von Orleans, Wilhelm Tell, 



268 


MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Wallenstein and Die Rduber). Represented also are Lessing 
{Minna von Barnhelm), Freytag {Die Journalisten), Heine {Bt]i 
der Lieder, selected, and Die Harzreise) .... De la Motte- 
Fouqu^’s Undine and Storm’s Immensee (three translations) are 
extremely popular. Hauptmann is known through his Die 
Webef) Der rote Hah% Der Biberpelz, Einsame Menscken and his 
recent novel Der Ketzer von Soana (two translations), while his 
Die Versunkene Glocke was once the name of a magazine. Among 
others are Sudermann’s Frau Sorge and more modern works 
like Wedekind’s Friiklings Erwachen and Leonhard Frank’s 
Karl und Anna. 

Apart from a few translations from Hawthorne, Mrs. Stowe, 
Irving, Mark Twain and Jack London, the interest in American 
literature centres around more modem works. Tte best known 
is Upton Sinclair, whose popularity came with the tide of 
Russian communist literature. Thirteen of his works have 
been translated, and in this category may also be mentioned 
Michael Gold’s short stories and his novel, Jews Without Mon^. 
Sinclair Lewis is represented only by Main Street, and Theodore 
Dreiser by a volume of short stories, although both are well 
known. Two of Eugene O’Neill’s plays {Beyond the Horizon 
and The Moon of the Caribbees) have been translated. Pearl 
S. Buck’s The Good Earth exists in two Chinese translations, while 
her Sons and short stories have also been translated. 

The tide of Russian literature came in or about 1927 with 
the establishment of the Nanking Government and the sup- 
pression of the communist movement. For, like literary Jacob- 
itism in England, which grew with the defeat of political 
Jacobitism, literary Bolshevism inundated China after the 
success of the Nationalist revolution. The tremendous young 
enthusiasm, which helped very largely to make the Nationa&t 
revolution in 1926-7 a reality, was denied fields of expression 
with the ofi&cial suppression of the Youth Movement by the 
Kuomintang, and a process of introversion took place. A 
strong undercurrent was set on its way which grew from a 
general dissatisfaction with the things as they are. 

And so the tide turned. The trumpet call for a ‘Revolu- 
tionary literature” (synonymous with ‘‘proletariat literature”) 
was sounded and at once found a larffe fnllowiner. Leaders of 



LITERARY LIFE 


269 

Renaissance of 1917 became out of date ovemiglit, and 
were generously labelled as ‘'old men/" Young China was 
disgusted and rebelled. Most intellectual leaders had learned 
to keep quiet and started collecting curios and old seals. Hu 
Shih continued to thunder and to roar, but his words fell on a 
comparatively apathetic audience, which wanted something 
ven^ much more radical. Chou Tsojen, Yu Tafu and writers of 
the Ytissu school were too much individualists to join the 
throng. Lusin fought, resisted the tide for a year and then 
went over. 

In the short space of hardly two years (1928-^), over a hun- 
dred Russian literary works, long and short, were put on the 
market with hectic speed, before the Government could quite 
wake up to the situation. These include works by the following 
authors: Lunacharsky, Liebediensky, Michels, Fadeev, Glad- 
hov, KoUontay, Shishkov, Romanov, Pilniak, Ognyov, Sos- 
novsky, Shaginian, Yakovlev, Alexei Tolstoy, Demidov, 
Erenburg, Arosev, Babel, Kasatkin, Ivanov, Iva, Luuts, 
Sannikoflf, Seyfullina, Bakhmetev, Fedin, Serafimovitch, Prish- 
\Tn, Semenov, Sholokhov, NVNV, Vessely, Zoschenko, 
Tretiakev, Sobole, Kolosov, Formanov, and Figner. We have 
omitted to mention, of course, the “great Russians*" of pre- 
revolutionary days, like Pushkin, Tchekov, Tolstoy and 
Turgeniev, who had before this time been familiar to the read- 
ing public. Tchekov*s complete works have been translated; 
Tolstoy is known through twenty of his works, including the 
long War and Peace (translated in part only), Anna Karenina 
and The Resurrection^ Dostoievsky is a great favourite (seven of 
his works, including Crime and Punishment)} Turgeniev had long 
been known (twenty-one of his works translated). Gorky, 
bridging across the two periods, is, of course, popular. 
Eroshenko, Andreyev and Artzybashev are also popular, due 
to Lusin*s influence. As a sign of the feverish demand for things 
Russian may be mentioned the curious fact that twenty-three 
out of the barely over hundred post-revolutionary works had 
double translations published by rival companies at about the 
same time, including four which appeared in three simul- 
taneous translations. Among the more popular works may be 
mentioned Madame Knllrmtsav’c 



268 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

WalknsUin and Die Rmber). Represented also are Lessing 
{Mima vcn Bamhelm), Frertag {Die Joumalisten) , Heine {Buck 
dtT Lieder, selected, and Die Harzreise) .... De la Motte- 
Fouquc’s Undine and Storm’s Immensee (three translations) are 
extremely popular. Hauptmann is known through his Die 
U'tbtr, Der rote Hahn, Der Biberpelz, Einsame Menschen and his 
recent novel Der Ketzer ton Soana (two translations), while his 
Die Versufikene Glocke was once the name of a magazine. Among 
others are Sudermann’s Frau Sorge and more modern works 
like Wedekind’s Fruhlings Erwachen and Leonhard Fraiak’s 
Karl und Ama. 

Apart from a few translations from Hawthorne, Mrs. Stowe, 
Irving, Mark Twain and Jack London, the interest in American 
literature centres around more modem works. The best known 
is Upton Sinclair, whose popularity came with the tide of 
Russian communist literature. Thirteen of his works have 
been translated, and in this category may also be mentioned 
Michael Gold’s short stories and his novel, Jews Without Mon^. 
Sinclair Lewis is represented only by Main Street, and Theodore 
Dreiser by a volume of short stories, although both are well 
known. Two of Eugene O’Neill’s plays {B^ond the Horizon 
and The Sfoon of the Caribbees) have been translated. Pearl 
S. Buck’s The Good Earth exists in two Chinese translations, while 
her Sons and short stories have also been translated. 

The tide of Russian literature came in or about 1927 with 
the establishment of the Nanking Government and the sup- 
pression of the communist movement. For, like literary Jacob- 
itism in England, which grew with the defeat of political 
Jacobitism, literary Bolshevism inundated China after the 
success of the Nationalist revolution. The tremendous young 
rathusiasm, which helped very largely to make the Nationalist 
revolution in 1926-7 a reality, was denied fields of expression 
with the official suppression of the Youth Movement by the 
Kucanintang, and a process of introversion took place. A 
strong undercurrent was set on its way which grew from a 
general dissati^action with the things as they axe. 

And so the tide turned. The trumpet call for a “revolu- 
tionary literature” (synonymous with “proletariat literature”) 
was souiaied and at once found a laige following. Leaders of 



LITERARY LIFE 


269 

the Renaissance of 1917 became out of date overnight, and 
were generously labelled as ""‘old men.” Young China was 
disgusted and rebelled. Most intellectual leaders had learned 
to keep quiet and started collecting curios and old seals. Hu 
Shih continued to thunder and to roar, but his words fell on a 
comparatively apathetic audience, which wanted something 
ver\^ much more radical. Chou Tsojen, Yu Tafu and writers of 
the Yussu school were too much individualists to join the 
throng. Lusin fought, resisted the tide for a year and then 
went over. 

In the short space of hardly two years (1928-9), over a hun- 
dred Russian literary works, long and short, were put on the 
market with hectic speed, before the Government could quite 
wake up to the situation. These include works by the following 
authors: Lunacharsky, Liebediensky, Michels, Fadeev, Glad- 
hov, Kollontay, Shishkov, Romanov, Pilniak, Ognyov, Sos- 
novsky, Shaginian, Yakovlev, Alexei Tolstoy, Demidov, 
Erenburg, Arosev, Babel, Kasatkin, Ivanov, Iva, Luuts, 
SannikofF, SeyfuUina, Bakhmetev, Fedin, Serafimovitch, Prish- 
vin, Semenov, Sholokhov, NVNV, Vessely, Zoschenko, 
Tretiakev, Sobole, Kolosov, Formanov, and Figner. We have 
omitted to mention, of course, the ‘^great Russians” of pre- 
revolutionary days, like Pushkin, Tchekov, Tolstoy and 
Turgeniev, who had before this time been familiar to the read- 
ing public. Tchekov’s complete works have been translated; 
Tolstoy is known through twenty of his works, including the 
long War and Peace (translated in part only), Anna Karenina 
and The Resurrection^ Dostoievsky is a great favourite (seven of 
his works, including Crime and Punishment)^ Turgeniev had long 
been known (twenty-one of his works translated). Gorky, 
bridging across the two periods, is, of course, popular. 
Eroshenko, Andreyev and Artzybashev are also popular, due 
to Lusin’s influence. As a sign of the feverish demand for things 
Russian may be mentioned the curious fact that twenty-three 
out of the barely over hundred post-revolutionary w^orks had 
double translations published by rival companies at about the 
same time, including four which appeared in three simul- 
taneous translations. Among the more popular works may be 
mentioned Madame KoUontay’s Red Love (two translations), 



270 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Gladhov’s CffiurU (three translations], Ognyov’s Diary of a 
Commtust Schoolboy (three translations), Artzybashev’s Sanine 
(three translations), the various works of Serafimovitch and 
PUniak, the plays of Shishkov, Ivanov and the critical worb 
of Lunacharsky. 

This seems a very large meal for Young China to devour, and 
if digestion is not perfect. Young China cannot be blamed. No 
wonder that Hawthorne and Anatole France are hopelessly 
out of date. The authorities are rubbmg their eyes now and 
doing something about it. What they can do and what will be 
the outcome no one can foretell. Censorship is easy and has 
been applied lately. What is not so easy is to give people a 
sense of satisfaction with the state of things. This can be done 
in three ways. The first is to give many of these writers good 
jobs, which proves sometimes effective. The second is to forbid 
them to say that they are dissatisfied, which is, of course, foolish. 
And the third is to make the things really satisfactory for the 
nation, which censorship alone cannot do. The nation is 
divided between optimists and pessimists, with the latter in the 
majority. But unless there is a great deal of constructive work 
and honest thinking and critical balance, the mere worship of 
slogans and pompous verbosity will not give China a new state, 
whether communist or fascist. The older generation who want 
to shunt China back to the old track of Confucianism, including 
the seclusion of women and the worship of “chaste widowhood,” 
will only estrange the sympathies of Young China. At the 
same time, the communist idealist, with a volume of Karl 
Mane under his arm and unkempt hair on his head and smoking 
a Russian cigarette and perpetually fulminating against 
somebody, will not bring cWa into salvation. Literature, I 
suspect, is still a pastime of the Uteraii^ old and new. 



Chapter Eight 

THE ARTISTIC LIFE 


I. The Artist 

I THINK of all phases of the Chinese cndlization, Chinese art 
alone will make any lasting contribution to the culture of the 
world. This point, I th in k, will not be seriously contested. 
Chinese science, in any case, does not make any pretensions, 
although the Chinese empirical medicine provides a rich field 
for medical research and discoveries. Chinese philosophy will 
never make any lasting impression on the West, because Chinese 
philosophy, with its moderation, restraint and pacifism, which 
are all physically conditioned by the decrease of bodily energy, 
can never suit the Western temperament, with its aggressive 
exuberance and vitality. 

For the same reason, the Chinese social organization will 
never fit the West. Confucianism is too matter of fact, Taoism 
too nonchalant, and Buddhism too negative to suit the Western 
positive outlook on life. No people that are daily sending 
men to explore the North Pole or conquer the air or break 
speed records can become good Buddhists. I have seen a few 
examples of European Buddhist monks, who talk altogether 
too loudly and too vehemently to conceal the tumultuous 
passions in their souls. In particular, I have seen one who, in 
his energetic demmciation of the West, is willing to call down 
fire and brimstone from heaven to bum up all Europe. When 
Europeans put on Buddhist gowns and try to look calm and 
passive, they merely look ridiculous. 

Moreover, it wotdd be unfair to judge the Chinese as a nation 
without an understanding of their art. There are certain hidden 
innermost recesses of the Chinese soul that can be known only 
through its reflection in Chinese art, for, like Cyrano de 
Bergerac, the extreme sensitiveness and fine feeling of the 



272 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Chinese soul are hidden behind a somewhat unprepossessing 
cxtericn Behind the Chinese flat, unemotional face is con- 
cealed a deep emotionalism, and behind his sullen, decorous 
appearance resides a carefree, vagabond soul. Those rough 
yellow fingers mould and fashion objects of pleasing design and 
harmony, and from the almond eyes behind the high cheek- 
bones shines a tender light that dwells fondly on forms of 
exquisite beauty. From the Temple of Heaven to the scholar’s 
letter-paper and other products of artcraft, Chinese art shows 
a taste and finesse and understanding of tone and harmony that 
distinguish the best products of the human spirit. 

Calm and harmony distinguish Chinese art, and calm and 
harmony come from the soul of the Chinese artist. The Chinese 
artist is a man who is at peace with nature, who is free from the 
shackles of society^ and from the temptations of gold, and whose 
spirit is deeply immersed in mountains and rivers and other 
manifestations of nature. Above all, his breast must brood no 
ill passions, for a good artist, we strongly believe, must be a good 
man. He must first of aU “chasten his heart” or “broaden his 
spirit,” chiefly by travel and by contemplation. This is the 
severe training we impose on the Chinese painter. It would be 
only too easy to give testimonies from Chinese painters to 
illustrate this point. Thus Wen Ghenming said: “If one’s moral 
character is not high, his art will also lack style.” A Chinese 
artist must absorb in himself the b^t of human culture and 
nature’s spirit. Tung Ch’ich’ang (1555-1636), one of the 
gmitcst of China’s calligraphists and painters, once said of 
another painter: “How can one be the father of painting with- 
out reading ten thousand books and travelling ten thousand /z?” 
The Chinese artist does not learn painting by going into a 
room and stripping a woman nak^ in order to study her 
anatomy, nor does he make copies of plaster figures of ancient 
Greece and Rome, as some backward art schools in the West 
still do. The Chinese artist travels and visits the famous 
mountains like Huangshan in Anhui or the Omei mountains 
in Sz^huen. 

This escape to the mountains is important for several reasons. 
First of all, the artist must absorb impressions from the myriad 
forms of nature, its insects and trees and clouds and waterfalls. 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 


^273 

In order to paint them, he must love them, and his spirit 
must commune with them. He must know and be familiar 
with their ways, and he must kno%v how the same tree changes 
its shade and colour between morning and night or between 
a clear day and a misty morning, and he must see with his owm 
eyes how the mountain clouds ^'entwine the rocks and encircle 
the trees/^ But more important than cold, objective observa- 
tions is the spiritual bapdsm in nature. So did Li Jihhua 
(1565-1635) describe die spiritual baptism of a great painter: 

Huang Tzuchiu often sits the whole day in the company 
of bamboos, trees, brush w^ood and piles of rocks in the wild 
mountains, and seems to have lost himself in his surround- 
ings, in a manner puzzling to others. Sometimes he goes to 
the place W’here the river joins the sea to look at the cur- 
rents and the waves, and he remains there, oblivious of wind 
and rain and the howling water-spirits. This is the work of 
the Great Absent-iMinded [name of the painter], and that is 
w'hy it is surcharged with moods and feelings, ever-changing 
and w^onderful like nature itself. 

Secondly, Chinese paintings are ahvays painted from 
mountain tops and specialize in those aw’esome grand aspects 
of mountain peaks or rocks, which only those who have seen 
them can believe. The retreat to the mountains is a search 
for grandeur in nature. A Chinese artist in America would 
first of all take for his subject the Grand Canyon or the moun- 
tains around Banff. And having come to such a grand 
surrounding, it is inevitable that he should obtain an elevation 
of the spirit as well as a physical elevation. It is strange that 
spiritual elevation alwrays goes with physical elevation on 
this planet, and life alw^ays looks difierent from an altitude of 
five thousand feet. People fond of horseback-riding always say 
that the moment one goes up on horseback one obtains a 
different view of the world, which I imagine must be true. 
The retreat to the mountains means, therdbre, also a search 
for moral elevation, which is the last and most important reason 
for travel. Thus from his god-like height the artist surveys the 
world with a calm expansion of the spirit, and this spirit goes 



274 COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

into his painting. Then, chastened in spirit, he comes back to 
city life and tries to communicate it to those who are less 
fortunate. His subjects may alter, but his spirit of mountain 
calm remains, and when he feels he has lost or exhausted this 
spirit, he travels again and rebaptizes himself in the mountain 
air. 

It is this spirit of calm and harmony, this flavour of the 
mountain air {shanlin ch'i) always tinged a little with the re- 
cluse’s passion for leisure and solitude, which characterizes all 
forms of Chinese art. Consequently, its characteristic is not 
supremacy over nature, but harmony with nature. 


11. Chinese Calligraphy 

All problems of art are problems of rhythm. Hence, in 
trying to understand Chinese art, we must begin with Chinese 
rhythm and the source of artistic inspiration. Allowing that 
rhythm is universal and that the Chinese do not own a mono- 
poly of nature’s rhythms, it is still possible to trace a difference 
of emphasis. It has already been pointed out, in the discussion 
on the ideal of womanhood in China, that the Western artist 
invariably goes to the feminine form as inspiration for the 
highest ideal of perfect rhythm, while the Chinese artist and 
art-lover usually rest supremely happy in contemplating a 
dragon-fly, a frog, a grasshopper or a piece of jagged rock. 
From my observation, it seems therefore that the spirit of 
Western art is more sensual, more passionate, more full of the 
artist’s own ego, while the spirit of Chinese art is more chas- 
tened, more retrained, and more in harmony with nature. 
We may express this difference by using the Nietzschean lan- 
guage and saying that Chinese art is Apollonian art, while 
Western art is Dionysian art. This enormous difference is 
possible only through a different understanding and apprecia- 
tion of rhythm as such. While it is true that all problems of cirt 
arc problems of rhythm in whatever coxmtry, it is also true 
that until recently in the West, rhythm has not played the 
dominant role which xt has always enjoyed in Chinese paintings. 

Curiously enough, this cult of rhythm in the abstract arose 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 275 

from the development of C 2 iinese calligraphy as an art* The 
strange pleasure derived from contemplating a picture of 
barren rocks done in a few strokes and hung on the wail to be 
looked at day in and day out^ — this strange pleasure will 
become understandable to the West when the W^t has under- 
stood the artistic principles of Chinese calligraphy. So funda- 
mental is the place of calligraphy in Chinese art as a study of 
form and rhythm in the abstract that we may say it has provided 
the Chinese people with a basic aesthetics, and it is through 
calligraphy that the Chinese have learned their basic notions 
of line and form. It is therefore impossible to talk about Chinese 
art without understanding Chinese calligraphy and its artistic 
inspiration. There is, for instance, not one type of Chinese 
architecture, whether it be the pailou^ the pavilion or the temple, 
whose sense of harmony and form is not directly derived from 
certain types of Chinese calligraphy. 

The position of Chinese calligraphy in the history of the 
world’s art is thus truly unique. Owing to the use in writing of 
the brush, which is more subtle and more responsive than the 
pen, calligraphy has been elevated to the true level of an art 
on a par with Chinese painting. The Chinese are fully aware 
of this when they regard painting and calligraphy as sister 
arts, sku-hua^ ‘‘calligraphy and painting,” forming almost an 
individual concept and always being mentioned in the same 
breath. Should there be a question as to which has a wider 
appeal, the answer would undoubtedly be in favour of calli- 
graphy. It has thus become an art ciiltivated with the same 
passion and devotion, dignified by as worthy a tradition, and 
held in as high esteem as painting itself. Its standards are just 
as exacting, and its masters have reached heights as unattain- 
able by the common run of men as the masters in other lines. 
The great Chinese painters, like Tung Gh’ich’ang and Chao 
Mengfu, are usually great calligraphists also. Chao Mengfu 
(1254-1322), one of the best known of Chinese painters, said of 
his own painting: “Rocks are like the feipo style of writing [with 
hollow lines in the strokes], and the trees are like the chuan style 
of writing [with relatively even and twisted strokes]. ITie 
method of painting lies yet in the ‘eight fundamental strokes* 
of writing. If there is one who can understand this, he will 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


276 

realize that the secret of calligraphy is really the same.” 

It seems to me that calligraphy, as representing the purest 
principles of rhythm and composition, stands in relation to 
painting as pure mathematics stands in relation to engineering 
or astronomy. In appreciating Chinese calligraphy, the mean- 
ing is entirely forgotten, and the lines and forms are appreciated 
in and for themselves. In this cultivation and appreciation of 
pure wtchery of line and beauty of composition, therefore, 
the Chinese have an absolute freedom and entire devotion to 
pure form as such, as apart from content. A painting has to 
convey an object, but a well- written character conveys only its 
own beauty of line and structure. In this absolutely free field, 
every variety of rh>Thm has been experimented upon and every 
type of structure has been explored. The Chinese brush makes 
the conveyance of every type of rhythmic movement possible, 
and the Chinese characters, which are theoretically square but 
are composed from the oddest elements, present an infinite 
variety of structural problems which every writer must solve 
for himself. Thus, through calligraphy, the Chinese scholar is 
trained to appreciate, as regards line, qualities like force, 
suppleness, reserved strength, exquisite tenderness, swiftness, 
neatness, massiveness, ruggedness, and restraint or fireedom; 
and as regards form, he is taught to appreciate harmony, 
proportion, contrast, balance, lengthiness, compactness, and 
sometimes even beauty in slouchiness or irregularity. Thus 
the art of calligraphy provides a whole set of terms of aesthetic 
appreciation which we may consider as the bases of Chinese 
notions of beauty. 

As this art has a history of well-nigh two thousand years, and 
as every writer tried to distinguish himself by a new type of 
rhythm or structure, therefore, in calligraphy, if in anything, 
we are entitled to see the last refinement of the Chinese artistic 
mi^. Certain types, such as the worship of beauty of irregu- 
larity or erf a forever toppling structure that yet keeps its 
balance, will surprise the Westerners by their finesse, all the 
more so because such types are not easily seen in other fields 
of Chinese art. 

_ What is of significance to the West is the fact that, not only has 
It provided the aesthetic basis for Chinese art, but it represents 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 277 

an animistic principle which may be most fruitful of results 
when properly understood and applied. As stated, Chinese 
calligraphy has explored every possible style of rhythm and 
form, and it has done so by deriving its artistic inspiration from 
nature, especially from plants and animals — the branches of the 
plum flower, a dried vine with a few hanging leaves, the spring- 
ing body of the leopard, the massive paws of the tiger, the swift 
legs of the deer, the sinewy strength of the horse, the bushiness 
of the bear, the slimness of the stork, or the ruggedness of the 
pine branch. There is thus not one type of rhythm in nature 
which has not been copied in Chinese writing and formed 
directly or indirectly the inspiration for a particular “style.” 
If a Chinese scholar sees a certain beauty in a dry vine with 
its careless grace and elastic strength, the tip of the end 
curling upward and a few leaves still hanging on it hap- 
hazardly and yet most appropriately, he tries to incorporate 
that into his writing. If another scholar sees a pine tree that 
twists its trunk and bends its branches downward instead of 
upward, which shows a wonderful tenacity and force, he also 
tries to incorporate that into his style of writing. We have there- 
fore the “dry-vine” style and the “pine-branch” style of writing. 

A famous monk and calligraphist had practised writing for 
years without result, and one day walking on a mountain path 
he chanced upon two fighting snakes, each straining its neck, 
which showed strength in apparent gentlenras. From this 
inspiration he developed a most individualistic type of writing, 
called the “fighting-snakes” style, suggesting the tension and 
^vriggling movement of the snakes’ necks. Thus Wang Hsichih 
(32i-379)> China’s “prince of calHgraphists,” spoke about the 
art of c^graphy in terms of imagery from nature: 

Every horizontal stroke is like a mass of clouds in battle 
formation, every hook like a bent bow of the greatest strength, 
every dot like a falling rock from a high peak, every tu rning 
of the stroke like a brass hook, every drawn-out l^e like a 
dry \’ine of great old age, and every swift and free stroke like a 
runner on his start. 

One can imderstand Chinese calligraphy only when one’s 



278 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

eves have been opened to the form and rhythm inherent in 
e\-cr>’ animars body and limbs. Every animal body has a 
harmony and beauty of its own, a harmony which grows 
directly from its vitkL functions, especially the functions of 
movement. The hairy legs and tall body of the draught-horse 
are as much a form of beauty as the more neatly formed outline 
of the racing-horse. That harmony exists in the outline of the 
swift, springing greyhound, as it exists also in that of the hairy 
Irish terrier, whose head and limbs end almost in square 
formations — strikingly represented in Chinese calligraphy by 
the blunt li-sku style (current in the Han Dynasty and elevated 
into an art by Teng Shih-ju of the Ch’ing Dynasty). 

The important thing to observe is that these plant and 
animal forms are beautiful because of their suggestion of 
movement. Consider a sprig of plum blossoms. How care- 
lessly beautiful and artfully irregular it is! To understand the 
beauty of that sprig folly, artistically, is to understand the 
underlying principle of Animism and of Chinese art. The 
sprig, even when deprived of its blossoms, is beautiful because it 
lives, because it expresses a living impulse to grow. The outline 
(rf every tree expresses a rhythm resulting from certain organic 
impulses, the impulse to grow and reach out toward the sun- 
shine, the impulse to maintain its equilibrium, and the necessity 
of resisting the movement of the wind. Every tree is beautiful 
because it suggests these impulses, and particularly because 
it suggests a movement toward somewhere, a stretching toward 
something. It has not tried to be beautiful. It has only wanted 
to live. Yet the result is something perfectly harmonious and 
immensely satisfying. 

Nor docs nature artificially invest the greyhound with an 
abstract beauty apart from its functions: the high arch of the 
greyhound’s body and the connecting line between its bodyand 
its hind legs arc built for swiftness, and they are beautiful be- 
cause they suggest swiftness. Yet from this harmonious function 
oneiges a harmonious form. The softness of the cat’s move- 
ments results in the softness of its contour, and even the 
logged squatting outline of a bulldog has a beauty of force 
ill its own. This is the explanation of nature’s infinite richness 
>f patterns, which are always harmonious, always rhythmic. 




OF CHINESE ART 



Changmin. a distinguished scholar who 
T ^ This w-riting is nearer the ‘‘pointer"' 

st>Te, b^g muscular and smooth in its rhythm. Note that 
eveiy character and every stroke is made rapidly in a 
controlling rliv-tHm 






THE ARTISTIC LIFE 279 

and infinitely variable without ever exhausting its forms. In 
other words, nature’s beauty is a dynamic, and not a static, 
beauty. 

It is exactly this beauty of movement which is the key to 
Chinese calligraphy. Its beauty is dynamic and not static, and 
because it expresses a dynamic beauty, a beauty of momentum, it 
lives, and it, too, is infinitely variable without exhaustion. A 
swift, sure stroke is appreciated because it is made swiftly and 
powerfully at one stroke, thus possessing a unity of movement, 
defying imitation or correction, for any correction is im- 
mediately detected as disharmonious. Incidentally, that is 
why calligraphy as an art is so difficult. 

That the ascribing of beauty in Chinese calligraphy to the 
animistic principle is not my own fancy can be proved from 
Chinese references to the **meat,” ^‘bones’’ and ‘‘tendons” of 
strokes, although their philosophic import has never been 
consciously laid bare until one comes to think of ways and 
means by which calligraphy can be made intelligible to the 
W^t. Thus Madame Wei, the talented aunt of Wang Hsichih, 
said: 

In the writing of those who are skilful in giving strength 
of stroke, the characters are “bony”; in the writing of those 
w^ho are not skilful in giving strength of strokes, the char- 
acters arc “fleshy.” Writing that has a great deal of bone 
and very little meat is called “sinewy writing,” and writing 
that is fiiU of fl^h and weak bones is called ‘‘p^SY writing.” 
A writing that is powerful and sinewy is divine; a writing 
that has neither power nor sinews is like an invalid. 

The dynamic principle of movement results in a principle 
of structure which is essential to an understanding of Chinese 
calligraphy. The mere beauty of balance and symmetry is 
never regarded as the highest form. One of the principles of 
Chinese writing is that a square should never be a perfect 
square, but should be higher on one side than the other, and 
that two symmetrical parts should never be exactly similar in 
size and position. This principle is called shih, or “posture,” 
which represents a beauty of momentum. The result is that. 



28 o my country and my people 

in the highest examples of this art, we have structural forms 
which are seemingly unbalanced and yet somehow maintain 
the balance. The difference between this beauty of momentum 
and beauty of merely static proportions is the difference between 
the picture of a man standing or sitting in a resting position 
and the snapshot of a man swinging his golf-stick, or of a 
football player who has just sent the ball soaring through the 
air. Just as the picture of a lady tossing her head is more 
suggestive of movement than one with her head on a straight 
level, so the Chinese characters written with their tops tilted 
to one side are preferred artistically to those with a symmetrical 
head. The best examples of this type of structure are contained 
in the tomb-ioscription of Chang Menglung, whose characters 
give the effect of being always on the point of toppling over, and 
yet always remain in balance. The best modem example of 
this st)ie is to be seen in the writings of Yii Yujen, Chairman 
of the Control Ytian, who owes his present position very largely 
to his renown as a calligraphist of high order. 

Modem art is in search of rhythms and experimenting on 
new forms of structure and patterns. It has not found them yet. 
It has succeeded only in giving us the impression of trying to 
escape from reality. Its most apparent characteristic is the 
effort, not to soothe us but to jar on our senses. For this reason, 
a study of Chinese calligraphy and its animistic principle, and 
ultimately a restudy of the rhythms of the natural world in the 
light of this animistic principle or rhythmic vitality, gives 
promise of great possibilities. The profuse use of straight lines, 
planes, and cones striking one another at different angles can 
only excite us, but they can never be alive with beauty. These 
planes, cones, straight lines and wavy lines seem to have 
exhausted the modem artist’s ingenuity. Why not go back to 
nature? It remains yet for some Western artist to strike a 
pioneer path by practising English calligraphy with the brash 
for ten years, and then, if he is talented and really understands 
the animistic principle, he will be able to write for signboards 
on Times Square, in lines and forms truly worthy of the name 
of an art. 

The full sigi^cance of Chinese calligraphy as the basis of 
Chinese aesthetics will be seen in a study of Chinese painting 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 


281 


and architecture. In the lines and composition of Chinese 
painting and in the forms and structures of Chinese archi- 
tecture, we shall be able to recognize the principles developed 
from Chinese calligraphy. These basic ideas of rhythm, form 
and atmosphere give the different lines of Chinese art, like 
poetry, painting, architecture, porcelain and house decorations, 
an essential unity of spirit. 


III. Painting 

Chinese painting, the flower of Chinese culture, is dis- 
tinguished by a spirit and an atmosphere all its own, entirely 
different from Western painting. It is as different from Western 
painting as Chinese poetry is different from Western poetry. 
That difference is hard to grasp and express. It has a certain 
tone and atmosphere, visible in Western painting, but essen- 
tially different and achieved by different means. It shows a 
certain economy of material, marked by the many blank spaces, 
an idea of composition determined by its own hannony and 
marked by a certain ‘‘rhythmic vitality,’’ and a boldness and 
freedom of the brush which impress the onlooker in an unfor- 
gettable manner. Somehow the picture before us has under- 
gone an inner process of transformation in the artist’s mind, 
shorn of its irrelevancies, its disharmonies, and giving us only a 
completely satisfying whole, so true to life and yet so different 
from it. The design is more obvious, the elimination of material 
more rigidly carried out, the points of contrast and concen- 
tration easier to trace, and we decidedly feel that the artist 
has interfered with the material reality and presented it to us 
only as it appears to him, without losing its essential likeness 
or intelligibility to others. It is subjective without the violent 
assertions of the artist’s ego in the modem Western painting, 
and without the latter’s unintelligibility to us common men. It 
manages to achieve a decidedly subjective appearance of 
things without making contortions. It does not try to paint all 
before one’s eyes, and it leaves a great deal to the onlooker’s 
imagination, without degenerating into a geometric puzzle. 
Sometimes the concentration on the immediate object is so 



282 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

intensive that only the tip of a plum branch is given in the 
whole picture and left there as perfect. And yet, with all this 
subjective interference with the material reality, the effect is not 
a jarring assertion of the artist’s ego, but a complete harmony 
with nature. How was this achieved, and how did this peculiai 
tradition grow up? 

This artisdc tradition did not come by chance or by an 
accidental discovery. Its characteristics may be most con- 
veniently summed up, I think, in the word lyricism^ and this 
lyricism came from a certain type of human spirit and culture. 
For we must remember that Chinese painting is closely related, 
in spirit and technique, to Chinese calligraphy and Chinese 
poetry. Calligraphy gave it its technique, the initial twist 
whiclx determined its future development, and Chinese poetry 
lent it its spirit. For poetry, painting and calligraphy are 
closely related arts in China. The best way of understanding 
Chinese painting is to study these influences which went into 
the building of that peculiar tradition. 

Briefly stated, this peculiar tradition, which we have called 
its lyricism, is the result of two revolts which modem Western 
painting is going through, but which came to the history of 
Chinese painting in the eighth century. They are the revolt 
against the subjection of the artist’s lines to the painted objects, 
and the revolt against a photographic reproduction of the 
material reality. Chinese calligraphy helped it to solve the 
first problem, and Chinese poetry hdped it over the second. 
A study of th^e revolts and of the gen^is of this artistic tradition 
will enable us to see why Chinese painting came to have its 
present character. 

The first problem of Chinese painting, and of aU painting, 
is: What shall be done with the lines or strokes as paint is put 
on the canvas or ink on the silk? It is a purely technical prob- 
lem, the problem of ^^touch,” But no artist can escape it, and 
the touch used wdll determine the whole style of his work. If 
the line is mechanically used to trace the lines of the painted 
olyects, it can have no freedom of its own. Sooner or later, we 
shall get tired of it. 

It B the same rebellion which we see in modem art, a 
rcbcUion which came up in China “with Wu Taotzu (r. 700—760) , 




‘*A IIOKSE/' HY PhON JtJ, A CONTEMPORARY (TIINESK PAINTER* HHOWINCx HUW THE RHYITIMIC STROKES AND MASTERY UP 
the: HRlTsIl ARE DliVKEOPlCD FROM THE CULTIVATION OF CAI LltiKAPHY AND STII.L REMAIN AKIN TO IT IN TKCHNiyUE. 




THE ARTISTIC LIFE 


283 

and Wu Taotzii solved it by bis mastery of the brush, dis- 
tinguished by its boldness and freedom. Instead of concealing 
the line, the artist glorified it. (We shall see the same principle 
in Chinese architecture.) Thus in place of the dead and servile 
lines of Ku K’aichih (346-407) which were more or less even 
as if dravm by a steel pen, Wu started the so-called ^^orchid- 
petal line,” curling and constantly changing in width, due to 
the natural rh>"thm of a stroke laid with the sensitive brush. 
In fact, it was from Wu Taotzu’s strokes that his pupil Chang 
Hsu created the extremely swift style of entwining ropes in 
calligraphy. Wang Wei (Mochieh, 699-759) further developed 
and modified the stroke in painting, sometimes abolishing the 
tradition£il method of ‘"tracing outlines,” and consequently is 
generally credited with ha\ing founded the “southern school.” 
Its far-reaching consequences we shall soon see. 

The second problem is: How shall the artist’s personality be 
projected into the work and make it worthy of the name of an 
art, transcending mere efforts at verisimilitude, yet without 
sacrificing truth, harmony or reality? This revolt against mere 
physical accuracy is also back of all the new tendencies in 
modem art, which may be described as searching for an 
escape from the material reality and for methods of indicating 
the artist’s own ego in the work. The same revolt came in the 
history of Chinese art in the eighth century with the new 
school. People felt tired or dissatisfied with photographic 
reproductions of the material reality. 

Here was the same old problem: How could the artist 
invest the objects with his own emotions or reactions without 
producing a grotesque caricature? The problem had already 
been solved in Chinese poetry. The revolt was a revolt 
against mere accuracy and minute craftsmanship. The con- 
trast between the new and the old school is interestingly shown 
in the story of two paintings of Szechuen landscapes on palace 
walls, done by Li Ssfihsiin (651-716) and Wu Taotzii during the 
reign of T’ang Minghuang. It is said that Li, the master of the 
“northern school,” did his landscape in about a month, with 
all its tracery work and golden colours, while Wu did his grand 
landscape of the entire Chingling river in a day’s time in 
splashes of ink, and the Emperor said, “li Ssuhsiin did it in 



284 my country and my people 

a month, and Wu Taotzii did it in a day, and each is perfect 
in its own way,” 

When this revolt against minute artistry came, there was 
Wang Wei, a first-class landscape painter himself, and he 
introduced into it the spirit and technique of Chinese poetry, 
with its impressionism, its lyricism, its emphasis on atmosphere 
and its pantheism. Thus the 'Yather of the southern school,” 
which makes Chinese painting deservedly famous, was a man 
nurtured in the Chinese poetic spirit. 

Chronologically, the development was as follows: It seem 
that the Chinese artistic genius first became conscious of itse] 
in the fourth, fifth and sixth centuries. It was in this perio< 
that art criticism and literary criticism were developed. An< 
it was Wang Hsichih (321-379), belonging to one of the mos 
artistocratic families of this time, who became known as “th 
prince of calligraphists.” During the following centuries th^ 
influence of Buddhism was at work, giving us the famou 
sculptures of Tat’ung and Lungmen. The style of writin] 
which developed in Northern Wei, now preserved in the so 
called ‘^Vei rubbings” from inscriptions of this period, set thi 
high watermark for Chinese calligraphy, in my opinion stil 
the best in its whole history. The Wei style was Ae great style 
it was not merely beautiful but had beauty and power an< 
finesse combined. Hsieh Ho in this period first enunciated th< 
principle of ‘‘rhythmic vitality” which became the centra 
principle of all Chinese painting in the last fourteen hundrec 
years. 

Then came the great eighth century, which, for some reasoi 
or other which I cannot quite explain, became the mos 
creative period of Chinese history, in painting, poetry anc 
prose. The cause was at least partially to be found in th< 
infusion of new blood which took place during the chao; 
of the preceding centuries. Li Po and Wang Wei were botl 
bom in the north-west, where race mixture was most active 
but wc lack more adequate genealogical data. Anyway, th< 
human spirit became free and creative. This century gav< 
us Li Po and Tu Fu and a good number of other first-claa 
poets: Li Ss^fin, Wang Wei and Wu Taotzu in painting 
Caiang Hsfl in the “running style” and Yen CSiendi’ing in th< 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 285 

formal style of calligraphy, and Han Yu in prose* Wang Wei 
was bom in 699, Wu Taotzii about 700, Li Po in 701, Yen 
Chench’ing in 708, Tu Fu in 712, Han Yii in 768, Po Chiiyi in 
772, and Liu Chung\*uan in 773 — all first-class names in 
Chinese history*. And in this century, too, a beauty of beauties, 
Yang Kweifei, was born to keep the Emperor company and 
grace the court with the poet Li Po. Nor was this period 
distinguished by peace, either. 

However that may be, the “southern schoor’ came into 
being, and it is the southern school that we are primarily 
interested in, as being most peculiarly Chinese. This type of 
painting became known as the “scholars’ painting,” and later 
on in the eleventh century, imder the influence of Sung 
scholars like Su Tungp’o (1035-1101), Mi Fei (1050-1107) 
and his son Mi Y'iijen (1086-1165), it reached still greater 
simplicity and subjectixdty*. It was also known as “literary^ 
men’s painting.” Su Tungp’o even painted a bamboo tree 
without its joints, and when someone protested, he replied by 
asking, “Did the bamboo grow by adding one joint to another?” 
Su, who was a great wTiter and poet, specialized in painting 
bamboos, and he was so fond of them that he once said, ‘T 
would rather go without meat in my meals than go without 
bamboos in my house.” His bamboo w^as, like his “drunken 
style” of “running script,” a splash of ink without colours; 
and his manner of painting w’^as to get dmnk and, after dinner, 
under the stimulation of alcohol when his spirit was heightened, 
dip his brush in the ink and write characters, or bamboos, or 
poetry as the inspiration came — it did not matter which. 
Once, in such a state, he scribbled a poem on his host’s wall, 
which is hardly translatable: “Sprouts come from my dry 
intestines, moistened by wine, and from my lungs and liver 
grow bamboos and rocks. So full of life they grow that they 
cannot be restrained, and so I am writing them on your snow- 
white wall.” For now painting was no longer “painted,” but 
“written” like characters. Wu Taotzu, too, often did his 
paintings under the inspiration of wine or of his Mend’s sword- 
dance, whose rhythm he incorporated into his work. It is 
evident that work done under such momentary stimulation 
could have been accomplished only in a few strokes or a few 


IT 



286 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

minutes, after which the alcoholic effect would have already 
vanished. 

Back of all this drunkenness, how^ever, there was a very fine 
philosophy of painting. The Chinese painter-scholars, who 
left behind a tremendous amount of very profound art criticism, 
distinguished between hsingy or the objects* physical forms, /i, 
or the inner law or spirit, and jz, or the artist’s own conception. 
The “scholars’ painting” was a protest against slavish veri- 
similitude, of which it wDuld be easy to give quotations, from 
the earliest to modem times. The Sung scholars emphasized 
especially li — the inner spirit of things. Mere accuracy of 
detail was the work of commercial artists, whereas painting 
worthy of the name of an art should aim at catching the spirit. 
It w'as not just mere drunkenness. 

But the fact that such painting was the work, not of pro- 
fessional artists but of scholars at play, was of profound sig- 
nificance. It W’as their spirit of amateurism which enabled 
them to deal with painting in a light and pleasant spirit. For 
during the eleventh century, when there was a brief outburst 
of the spirit of “scholars’ painting,” such painting was referred 
to as mohsi^ or “play with ink.” It was a pastime of the scholars 
when they were in the playing mood, like calligraphy and like 
poetry. There was no heaviness of spirit. It seemed as if the 
scholar, after having obtained mastery of the brush in calligraphy, 
had an exuberance of energy which he applied to art as a 
pleasant and interesting change. The material equipment was 
the same: the same scrolls, the same brushy and the same ink 
and water, and they were all there before his desk. For no 
palette was necessary. Mi Fd, one of the greatest of scholar- 
painters, sometimes used even a roll of paper for his brush, or 
the pulp of sugar-cane, or the stalk of a lotus flower. When the 
inspiration came and there was magic in the scholar’s “wrist,” 
there was nothing which seemed impossible to these artists. 
For they had mastered the art of conveying fundamental 
rhythms, and everything else was secondary. There are to-day 
painters who inake sketches with their bare fingers, and one 
even with his mobile tongue, dipped in ink and licking the 
paper as he draws along. Pai n ti n g was, and still is, the scholar’s 
recreation. 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 


287 

This pla>ing mood accounts for a certain quality of Gliinese 
painting, called jL The nearest word for this in translation is 
“fugitiven^s/^ if this word may be used to denote at the same 
time “romanticism’’ and “the spirit of the recluse.” It is this 
quality of light-hearted and carefree romanticism which dis- 
tinguishes Li Po’s poetry. This or “fugitive” or “recluse” 
quality is prized as the highest quality of the scholar’s paintings, 
and it comes from the plapng spirit. Like Taoism, it is the 
effort of the human spirit to get away from the workaday hum- 
drum world, and achieve a light-hearted freedom. 

This desire is understandable when we realize how much the 
scholar’s spirit was restrained in the moral and political 
spheres, and in painting at least, it did its best to recover that 
freedom. Ni Ylinlin (1301 -1374), a great Yuan painter most 
distinguished for this quality, said; “My bamboo paintings are 
not intended merely to paint the fugitive spirit in my breast, 
WTiat do I care w^hether they are exact or not, whether the 
leaves are thick or thin, or whether the branches are straight 
or crooked?” Agadn, he said: “What I call painting is only a 
few swaftly-made strokes of the romantic brush, not intended 
to copy reality, but merel)f to please myself.^^ 

One should recognize, therefore, in Chinese ink-drawings of 
human figures and landscapes of the southern school, certain 
influences of calligraphy. First, one sees the swift, powerful 
and always highly rhythmic strokes. In the twisting lines of the 
pine tree one sees the same principle of twisting used in Chinee 
writings. Tung Gh’ich’ang said about painting trees that every 
line should twist all along, and Wang Hsichih said of calli- 
graphy that every slanting line should have three twists. Tung 
Gh’ich’ang also said that “when scholars paint, they should 
apply the law^ of the running script, the lishu^ and the archaic 
script.” One sees also in the hollow wavy lines of the rocks a 
type of script called feipo, which is written with a relatively 
dry brush, leaving many hollow lines in the centre of the 
strokes, and sees in the entwining branches of the trees the 
wriggling lines of the seal character. For this is a secret left us 
by Chao Mengfu himself. Further, the artistic use of blank 
space is an important calligraphic principle, for proper spacing 
is the very first law of calligraphy, as stated by Pao Shcnpo. If 



288 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the spacing is correct, even mere symmetry of form may be 
sacrificed, as may be seen in Yii Yujen’s writing to-day. It 
does not matter in Chinese writing if the contour of the 
character is unsymmetricai, but incorrect spacing is an un- 
forgivable offence, which is the surest sign of immature 
craftsmanship. 

And one recognizes further in the simple unity of design of 
Chinese paintings the controlling rhythm of the brush, called 
piyi. Ti means the “conception” in the artist’s mind. To make 
a Chinese drawing is but to “wnrite out a conception,” hsiekyi. 
Before one puts the brush on the paper, the artist has a definite 
conception in his mind; then as he draws along, he is only 
writing out that conception through certain strokes; he brooks 
no interference of irrelevancies, and adds a twig here or a 
blade there to preserve the organic rhythm; and when he has 
expressed the essential conception in his mind, he leaves off. 
For that reason, the picture lives because the conception 
behind it lives. It is like reading a good epigram; the words 
end, but the flavour remains. The Chinese artists express 
this technique by saying that “the conception precedes the 
brush, and when the brush has done its work, the conception 
still remains.” For the Chinese are consummate masters in 
suggestion and “leaving oflf at the right moment.” They like 
good tea smd olives which give a “back-flavour,” hweiwei, 
which is not felt until a few minutes after eating the olive or 
drinking the good tea. The total effect of this technique in 
painting is a quality called k'ungling, “empty-and-alive,” which 
means extreme vitality coupled with economy of design. 

Chinese poetry gives Chinese painting its spirit. As stated 
already in the (hscussion on poetry, it more often happens in 
China than in the West that the poet is a painter, and the 
painter, poet. Poetry and painting come firom the same human 
spirit, and it is natural that the spirit and mner technique of 
both riiould be the same. We have seen how painting in- 
fluenced poetry in perspective, because the poet’s eye is the 
painter’s eye. But we shall also see how the painter’s spirit is 
the poet’s spirit, how the painter shows the same impression, 
the same method of suggestion, the same emphasis on an in- 
definable atmosphere, and the same pantheistic union with 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 289 

nature, which characterize Chinese poetry. For the poetic 
mood and the picturesque moment are often the same, and 
the artist mind which can seize the one and give it form in 
poetry can also, with a little cultivation, express the other in 
painting. 

First, we can dismiss the question of perspective, which 
puzzles Westerners, by explaining once again that Chinese 
pictures are supposed to be painted from a verj^ high mountain. 
The perspecdve one obtains of the world of objects from a 
high altitude, say, from an aeroplane filing six thousand feet 
above the earth, must be different from the perspective on 
the ordinary level. The higher the vantage point, the less, of 
course, the lin^ converge toward a point. This is also \Tsibly 
influenced by the oblong shape of Chinese scrolls, which re- 
quires a long distance from the foreground at the bottom of 
the scroll to the line of the horizon at the top of the scroll. 

Like the modem Western painters, the Chinese artists wish 
to portray, not reality but their own impressions of reality, 
and hence their impressionistic method. The trouble with 
Western impressionists is that they are a little too clever and a 
little too logical. With all their ingenuity, the Chinese artists 
are not able to produce artistic freaks to startle the layman. 
The basis of their impressionism is, as has been explained, the 
theory that ‘‘the conception must precede the using of the 
brush.” Not the material reality, therefore, but the artist’s 
conception of the reality is the purport of the pa i nti ng . They 
remember that they are painting for fellow human beings and 
the conceptions must be humanly intelligible to others. They 
are restrained by the Doctrine of the Golden Mean. Their 
impressionism is therefore a human impressionism. In p ai nting 
a picture, their object is to convey a umfied conception, which 
determines what to include and what to leave out, resulting in 
the Hmglmg quality. 

Since the conception is of primary importance, the greatest 
pains must be taken to conceive a poetic conception. In the 
Sung Dynasty, w^hen scholare had competitive examinations 
in painting under the Imperial Bureau of Painting, we see how 
this consideration of the poetic conception overruled every 
other standard. Invariably it was the painting which showed 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


290 

the best conception that won. Now it is characteristic that the 
best conceptions always depended on the method of suggestion. 
The themes were poetic enough in themselves, since they 
were always a line taken from a poem. But the ingenuity 
lies in the most suggestive interpretation of that poetic line. 
A few examples will suffice. In the reign of Huichung, once 
the subject for examinations was a line: 

Bamboos cover a wine-shop by the bridge. 

Many competitors tried to concentrate on the wine-shop as 
the centre of the picture. There was one man, however, who 
painted only a bridge, a bamboo grove by its side, and hidden 
in that grove, only a shop-sign bearing the character ‘"wine,” 
but no wine-shop at all. And this picture won because the 
wine-shop was hidden in the imagination. 

Another subject given was a line from Wei Ingwu’s poem: 

At the deserted ferry, a boat drifts across by itself. 

The poet had already used the method of suggestion in convey- 
ing the atmosphere of silence and desolation by showing that 
the boat, left alone, drifted across by the force of the current, 
but the painter carried the method of suggestion further. The 
winning picture was one which conveyed this feeling of silence 
and desolation by drawing a bird resting on the boat, and 
another one about to perch on it. The presence of the birds 
near the boat suggests that the boat was deserted and no 
human beings were about. 

There was another painting, which was intended to portray 
the atmosphere of luxury in the rich man’s mansion. A modem 
painter, sick of painting reality, would also try to suggest. 
But he would probably paint a jumble of a saxophone that 
ma^cally penetrates tlurough a champagne glass that rests on 
a woman’s breast that hides underneath three-quarters of a 
motor-car whed that grazes over the funnels of a Gunard liner, 
etc., etc. The Chinese impressionist painted, however, only 
a rich mansion in the bacl^ound, with its gate standing half- 
open and a maid peepir^ out and pouring out a basketful of 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 201 

rich men’s delicacies, like ducks’ feet, Ikhi^ walnuts, hazelnuts, 
etc, which were delineated with the greatest realism of detail. 
The sumptuous feast inside was not seen, but only suggested 
by these left-overs to be tlirowm into the refuse heap. The 
conception is therefore eveiy^thing, on which depends very 
largely the poetic quality of the work. It is shy of straight 
portrayal and it always tries to suggest. The constant care 
of the Chinese artists is: Leave something for the imagination! 

Had Chinese painting remained content, however, with the 
emphasis on “conception,” which is more a matter ojf the head 
than of the heart, it would have struck a blind alley, for art, 
which ought to appeal primarily to our feelings and our senses, 
would have degenerated into a mathematical puzzle or a 
logical problem. No amount of technical skill or cleverness 
of intellectual conception can give us great art, if it fails to 
achieve an atmosphere and evoke in us a sympathetic state of 
emotion. We see this in all great paintings, w^hether Chinese 
or European. The mood is therefore everything. The drawing 
of two birds alighting on a boat serv^es merely to suggest the 
absence of any boatman near by, and that absence can mean 
nothing to us unless, at the same time, it evokes in us a mood 
of solitude and desolation. Why should not the boat drift 
across by the force of the current if it wants to? The picture 
becomes alive and full of meaning to us only when we feel that 
the boat would not have drifted across like that if it had not 
been left alone, and this leads to a reflection on the desolation 
of the scene which could touch our emotions. Of what avail 
is it to paint the sign of a wine-shop hidden in a bamboo grove 
by the bridge unless we are led to imagine the people who 
naight be gathered in that wine-shop, where time hangs heavy 
and life is at peace, and men can spend whole afternoons 
gossiping about the fisherman’s rheumatism and the queen’s 
girlhood romance? The evocation of the mood is therefore 
everything, in painting as in poetry. This leads us to a con- 
sideration of “atmosphere,” otherwise called “rhythmic 
vitality,” which has been the highest ideal of Chinese painting 
for the last fourteen hundred years, smee Ebieh Ho first 
enunciated it and other painters daborated and discussed and 
quarrelled over it 



MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 


292 

For we must remember that the Chinese painters did not 
want mere accuracy of detail. Su Tungp’o said: “If one criti- 
cizes painting by its verisimilitude, one’s understanding is 
similar to that of a child.” But taking away mere veri- 
similitude, what has the painter to offer us? What, after all, is 
the purpose of painting? The answer is that the artist should 
conve>- to us the spirit of the scenery and evoke in us a sym- 
pathetic mood in response. That is the highest object and 
ideal of Chinese art. W’e remember how the artist makes 
periodic \isits to the high mountains to refresh his spirit in the 
mountain air and clean his breast of the accumulated dust of 
urban thoughts and suburbsua passions. He climbs to the 
highest peaks to obtain a moral and spiritual elevation, and he 
braves the wnds and soaks himself in rain to listen to the 
thimdering waves of the sea. He sits among piles of wild 
rocks and brushwood and hides himself in bamboo groves for 
days in order to absorb the spirit of life and nature. He should 
convey to us the benefit of that communion of nature, and 
communicate to us some of the spirit of the things as it is 
instilled into his soul, and re-create for us a picture, “surcharged 
with moods and feelings, ever-changing and wonderful like 
nature itself.” He might, like Mi Yiijen, give us a landscape of 
nestling clouds and enveloping mists which entwine the rocks 
and encircle the trees, in which all details are submerged in 
the general moistness of the atmosphere, or, like Ni Yunlin, 
he might give us a pictmre of autumn desolation, with the 
country a stretch of blank whiteness and the trees so sparse of 
foliage that only a few dangling leaves affect us by their loneli- 
ness and their shivering cold. In the power of this atmosphere 
and this general rhythm, all details be forgotten and only 
the central mood remains. That is “rhythmic vitality,” 
eHifwi shengtimg, the highest ideal of Chinese art. Thus poetry 
and ptunting meet again. 

TtdB is the message of Chinese art, that it teaches us a pro- 
found love of nature, for the Chinese painting which really 
excels by its unique accomplishments is painting of landscape 
and of nature. The best of Western landscapes, like Corot’s, 
give us the same atmosphere and the same feeling for nature. 

But in the portrayal of htunan forms, the Chinese are 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 293 

deplorably backward. For the human form is made sub- 
servient to tlie forms of nature. If there is any appreciation of 
the female human form as such, we see no traces of it in paint- 
ing. Ku K’aichih’s and Gh’iu Shihchou’s female forms suggest, 
not the beauties of their bodies but the lines of the winds and 
the waves. For this worship of the human body, especially of 
the female body, seems to me to be the most singular character- 
istic of Western art. The most singular contrast between 
Chinese and Western art is the difference in the source of 
inspiration, w^hich is nature itself for the East and the female 
form for the West. Nothing strikes a Chinese mind as being 
more grotesque than that a female figure should be labelled 
“Contemplation” or that a nude bathing girl should be made 
to represent “September Mom.” To-day many Chinese are 
still unable to reconcile themselves to the fact that Western 
civilization requires actual living “models,” stripped and 
placed before one’s eyes, to be stared at daily for two hours at 
a time, before one can learn even the first essentials of painting. 
Of course there are also many Westerners who are willing only 
to hang Whistler’s “My Mother” above their mantelpiece, 
and who do not dare so much as contemplate a female figure 
called “Contemplation.” There is still to-day a large pro- 
portion of English and American society who apologize for 
French pictures in their flats by saying that the room is rented 
furnished, and who do not know what to do with a Viennese 
porcelain doll that some of their friends have presented them 
for Christmas. They generally banish the whole topic firom a 
conversation by calling these things “art,” and the ones who 
made then “crazy artists.” Nevertheless, the fact remains that 
orthodox Western painting is Dionysian in its origin and 
inspiration, and that the Western painter seems unable to see 
anything without a naked, or nearly naked, human body in 
it. Whereas the Chinese painter symboKzes spring by a fat and 
well-shaped partridge, the W^tem painter symbolizes it by 
a dancing nymph with a faun chasing after her. And whereas 
the Chinese painter can delight in the fine lines of a cicada’s 
wings and in the full limbs of the cricket, the grasshopper and 
the frog, and the Chinese scholar can daily contemplate such 
pictures on his wall with continual delight, the Western painter 



294 COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

cannot be satisfied with anything less than Henner’s Liseuse or 
Madeleine. 

This discovery of the human body is, to-day, one of the most 
potent influences of Western civilization in China, for it 
changes the whole outlook of life by changing the source of 
artistic inspiration. In the final analysis this must be called 
a Greek influence. The Renaissance revival of learning came 
with the Renaissance worship of the human body and its 
hearty avowal that life is beautiful. A great part of the Chinese 
tradition is humanistic enough without any Greek influence, 
but the proclamation that the human body is beautiful has 
been strangely lacking in China. Once, however, our eyes are 
opened to the beauty of the human body, we are not likely to 
forget it. This discovery of the human body and worship of 
the female form is bound to be a most potent influence because 
it is linked up with one of the strongest of human instincts, that 
of sex. In tMs sense, we may say that Apollonian art is being 
replaced by Dionysian art in China, inasmuch as Chinese art 
is not being taught in most of the Chinese schools, not even in 
most of the art schools. They are all copying female anatomy 
from human models or from plaster figures of classical (Greek 
and Roman) sculpture. It is useless to plead Platonic aesthetic- 
ism in the worship of the nude, for only effete artists can regard 
the human body with a passionless admiration, and only efiete 
artists will stoop to make the plea at all. The worship of the 
human body is sensual, and necessarily so. Real European 
artists do not deny the fact, but proclaim it. The same 
accusation cannot be made against Chinese art. But whether 
we will it or not, the trend has set in and is not likely to be 
stopped. 


IV, Arghttecture 

Nature is always beautiful, but human architecture usually 
is not. For unlike painting, architecture is not even an attempt 
to copy nature. Architecture was originally a matter of 
stones and bricks and mortar, piled together to give man 
^iditer from wind and rain. Its first principle was utility, and 



THE AUTISTIC LIFE 


295 

is often purely so even to this day. Hence the unmitigated 
ugliness of the best modern factory buildings, school-houses, 
theatres, post offices, railway stations, and rectilinear streets, 
whose oppressiveness accounts for the fact that we constantly 
feel the need to escape to the country. For the greatest differ- 
ence between nature and these products of the human mind 
is the infinite richness of nature and the extreme limitations of 
our ingenuity. The best human mind cannot invent anything 
besides block houses, with a few conventional mouldings, a 
rotunda here and a triangular gable there. The most impressive 
mausoleum or memorial cannot compare with the inventive- 
ness of the trees, even the mutilated and disinfected tre^ that 
line the avenues of our main streets, when w'c remember to 
put them there. Yet how nature dares! If these trees with their 
rough surface and irregular shapes had been the products of a 
human architect, we would have consigned the architect to an 
insane asyium. Nature even dares to paint the trees green. We 
are afraid of irregularity. We are afraid even of colour. And 
we have therefore invented the w^ord “drab'* to describe our 
own existence. 

WTiy is it that, with all the fertility of the human mind, we 
have not succeeded in producing anything less oppressive than 
terrace houses and modem pavements and rec^near streets, 
from which we have to seek perennial escape by going to 
summer resorts? Utility is the amswer. But utility is not art. 
The modern industrial age has aggravated the situation, 
especially with the invention of reinforced concrete. This is a 
symbol of the industrial age, and it will live as long as the 
modem industrial civilization lasts. Most of the concrete 
buildings have forgotten even to put on a roof, because, we are 
told, the roof is usdess. Some have even professed to see an 
inspiring beauty in the New York skyscrapers. If so, I have 
not seen any. Their beauty is the beauty of gold: they are 
beautiful because they suggest the power of millions. They 
express the spirit of the industrial age. 

Yet because we have to look at the houses we build for our- 
sdves every day and have to spend most of our dayrs in them, 
and because bad architecture can cramp the style of our living, 
there is a very human demand to make it beautiful. Very 



296 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

subtly the houses change the face of our towns and cities. A 
roof is not just a roof to shelter us from sun and rain, but 
something that affects our conception of a home, A door is 
not just an opening to get inside, but should be the “open 
sesame’’ that leads us into the mysteries of people’s domestic 
lives. After all, it makes some difference whether we knock at 
a drab-coloured house-door or at a vermilion-painted gate 
with golden hobs on it. 

The problem is how to make the bricks and mortar alive 
and speak the language of beauty. How can we inform it with 
a spirit and make it say something to us, as European cathedrals 
are informed with a spirit and speak a silent language of the 
greatest beauty' and sublimity to us? Let us see how the best 
of Chinese architecture tried to solve this problem. 

Chinese architecture seems to have developed along a line 
different from that of the West. Its main tendency is to seek 
harmony with nature. In many cases it has succeeded in so 
doing. It has succeeded because it took its inspiration from 
the sprig of plum blossoms — translated first into the moving, 
li\ing lines of calligraphy and secondarily into the lines and 
forms of architecture. It has supplemented this by the constant 
use of symbolic motives. And it has, through the prevalent 
superstition of geomancy, introduced the element of pantheism, 
which compels regard for the surrounding landscape. Its 
essential spirit is the spirit of peace and contentment, with its 
best product in the private home and garden. Its spirit does 
not, like the Gothic spires, aspire to heaven, but broods over 
the earth and is contented with its lot. While Gothic cathedrals 
suggest the spirit of sublimity, Chinese temples and palaces 
suggest the spirit of serenity. 

Unbelievable as it seems, the influence of calligraphy comes 
in even in Chinese architecture. This influence is seen in the 
bold use of skeleton structures, like pillars and roofs, in the 
hatred of straight, dead lines, notably in the evolution of the 
sagging roof, and in the general sense of form and proportion 
and grace and severity of temple and palaces. 

The problem of revealing or concealing skeleton structures 
is exactly timilar to the problem of “touch” in painting. Just 
a$ in Chinese painting the outl in ing strokes, instead of serving 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 20? 

merely to indicate the contour of shapes of things, acquire a 
bold freedom of their own, so in Chinee architecture the pillars 
in walls, or rafters and beams in roofs, instead of being hidden 
in shame, are frankly glorified and become important elements 
in gi\ing structural form to the buildings. In Chinese buildings 
the whole structural framework is, as it were, purposefully 
revealed in full to us. We simply like to see these structural 
lines, as indicating the basic pattern of the building, as we 
like to see the rhythmic sketches of outline in painting which 
stand for the substance of objects for us. For that reason, the 
wooden framework is usually revealed in house-walls, and the 
rafters and beams are left visible both inside and outside the 
house. 

This arises from a well-known principle in calligraphy, the 
principle of * "framework,** or chienchia. Among the various 
strokes of a character, we usually choose a horizontal or a 
vertical stroke, or sometimes an enveloping square, which is 
regarded as giving support to the rest, and this stroke we must 
make pow^erfully and make longer, more obvious than the 
others. Having obtained support in this main stroke, the 
other strokes will cluster round it or take their point of departure 
from it. Even in the design of a group of buildings, there is a 
principle of axis^ as there is an axis in most Chinese characters. 
The whole city-planning of Peiping, old Peking, one of the 
most beautiful cities of the world, is due very largely to an 
invisible axis of several miles running north and south from 
the outermost front gate, right across the Emperor*s throne, 
to the Goal Hill central pavilion and the Drum Tower behind. 
This axis is clearly visible in the character for “middle** or 
ckung^ tp , and in other characters, like S ^ H * 

Perhaps more important than the principle of a straight 
axis is the use of curves, wavy lines, or irr^ular rhythmic 
lines to contrast with the straight lin^. This is most clearly 
seen in the Chinese roofs. Every Chinese temple or palace 
building or mansion is based, in its essence, upon the combin- 
ation or contrast of the straight vertical lines of the pillars and 
the curved lines of the roof. The roof itself contains a contrast 
between the straight line at the ridge and the sagging line 
below. This is due to our training in calligraphy in which we 



298 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

are taught that when we have a straight main line, which may 
be horizontal, vertical or slanting, we must contrast it with 
curved or soft broken lines eiround it. The ridge of the roof is 
furthermore broken by only a few decorative motives. Only 
by the contrast of these lines are the straight lines of the pillars 
and the walls endurable. If one sees the best examples of 
Chinese temples and dwelling-houses, one notices that the 
roof forms the decorative point of emphasis rather than the 
pillars or the walls (which often do not exist in front) — the 
latter being proportionately small compared with the roof 
itself. 



AJ^fD FAMOUS CAIXIGRAPHIST. 

Tht origin of th€ famous roof-Hne traced to calHgrapky, 

The top of the characters and “B** is a component of Chinese writing, 
signifying the *‘roof.’' Note the sag in the middle and the sweeping effect 
given by Chinese roofs. The top of character signifies **man,‘’ bnt 
resembles the upper lines of a roof. Note also the sweeping gesture and the 
upward curling at the lower ends. 

Note further the principle of structure involved and applied to Chinese 
architecture. Note the rigid vertical line (the pillar) in “A/* contrasted with 
the curve in the ‘*roof ’* and with other horizontal strokes attached to it. Note 
in “B*' the central vertical curv^e, with the other strokes clustering around a 
point at its top and strangely balancing one another. 


The origin of the sagging roof, probably the most unique and 
obvious characteristic of Chinese architecture, has never been 
properly understood. Some imagine a connection with the 
primitive tents of our nomadic days. And yet the reason for it 
is obvious in calligraphy. No one who knows the elements of 
Chinese calligraphy can fail to see the principle of gracefully 
sweeping lines. In Chinese calligraphy the greatest difficulty 
is to bring about strength of stroke, as it is always diflScult to 
give strength to a perfectly straight stroke. On the other hand, 
a slight bent on either side will give it immediately a feeling of 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 


299 

tension. It is only necessary to point to the graceful sag in 
the “radical” sigmf\ing a roof in Chinese characters to see 
that this is no mere imagination of the author. 

Our love for rhythmic or wa\y lines or broken lines and our 
hatred of straight, dead lines become obvious when it is 
remembered that we have never perpetrated any^thing quite 
as ugly as the Cleopatra’s Needle. Some modem Chinese 
architect has perpetrated a Western-styled lighthouse-shaped 
thing called the West Lake Exhibition Memorial, and it stands 
there amidst the beauties of West Lake like a sore on a beauty’s 
face, causing all sorts of eye troubles when one looks at it too 
long. 

It would be easy to give examples of our devices to break 
straight, dead lines. The best classic example is perhaps the 
balustraded round bridge. The round bridge harmonizes 
with nature, because it is in a curve and because it is balus- 
traded. Its spans are not as long and its balustrades not as useful 
as the steel trusses of the Brookl^m Bridge, but no one can deny 
that it suggests less human cleverness and more beauty. 
Consider also the pagoda, and how its entire beauty derives 
from the fact that its outline is broken by a succession of 
projecting roofs, especially those end-lines that curl upward 
like the slanting strokes of Chinese writing. Consider also the 
peculiar pair of stone pillars outside the Tienanmen at Peiping. 
Nothing is more striking than the wavy-lined symbol of clouds 
placed horizontally across the top on each pillar, resulting in a 
form unparalleled in audacity even in Chinese art. The pillara 
themselves have a wavy surface, whatever the pretext may be* 
It happens that the waves represent clouds, but this is an 
artistic pretext to introduce rhythm into the surface. The 
stone pillars of the Temple of Confucius bear, too, the wavy 
lines of the entwining dragons. Because the wavy lin^ of the 
dragon’s body help to break the straight lines, we find the 
dragon constantly used as a useful decorative motive, apart 
from its symbolic value. 

Everywhere we try to catch and incorporate the natural 
rhythm of nature and imitate its irregularity. The spirit 
underlying it all is still the spirit of animism in calligraphy. 
We break the lines of window bars by using green-glazad t3cs 



300 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

of the bamboo pattern. We dare to use round and oblong and 
vase-shaped doors to break the monotony of the straight walls. 
Our windows are of as many shapes as the small cakes of 
Western pastry, imitating a banana leaf, or a peach, or a 
double-curved melon or a fan. Li Liweng, poet, dramatist 
and epicure, was responsible for introducing the branch-inlaid 
windows and partitions. The outline of the window is usually 
straight. Along this outline, however, he introduced a branch- 
shaped carving, to give the eiSfect of a living branch stretched 
across the window. The device is applied to partitions, bed- 
posts and other types of lattice-work. And lastly, the use of 
rockery is probably the clearest example of our efforts to 
introduce into human architecture the natural irreglilar lines 
of nature. 

In other words, we see everyvrhere in Chinese architecture 
an effort to seek relief from straight lines through some form 
of irregularity suggestive of animal and plant forms. This 
leads to a consideration of the use of symbolism. The bat, for 
instance, is very much used as a decorative motive, because its 
curved wings are capable of so many variations in design, but 
also because it is a homonym for “good luck.” The symbol is 
the language of the primitive and the child-mind. It is some- 
thing that every Chinese woman and child can understand. 

But symbolism has, further, the virtue of containing within 
a few conventional lines the thought of the ages and the 
dreams of the race. It kindles our imagination and leads us 
into a realm of wordless thought, like the Christian cross or 
the Soviet hammer and sickle. For such racial thoughts are 
so big and so enormous that we cannot convey them in words. 
A Chinese pillar goes up in perfect simplicity and then when 
it reaches the top and loses itself in a riot of brackets and cornices 
and bars, we like to see there, as we look up, a pair of mandarin 
ducks or a grasshopper or an ink-slab and a brush. As we look 
up at the mandarin ducks which always go in pairs in wedded 
bliss, our thoughts are turned to woman^s love, and as we look 
at tihe ink-slab and the brush, we think of the quiet scholar in 
his study. There, painted in green and blue and gold are the 
grasshoppers and the crickets and the mandarin ducks, and it 
is as much happiness as we dare to dream of in this earthly life. 



THE ARTISTIC LIFE 


301 

Sometimes we paint landscapes, and sometimes we paint the 
pleasures of home life, for these are the two eternal themes of 
Chinese painting. 

The dragon is the most honoured animal in China, being a 
symbol of the Emperor, %vho always had the best of ever^-thing. 
It is most used in art as a decorative motive, partly because 
the twining body of the dragon contains in itself such a perfect 
rhythm, combining grace with power. I daresay we would 
have used the snake also, had it not been for the fact that the 
dragon, as a decorative motive, had a profounder meaning, 
besides ha\ing those beautiful claws and horns and beards 
which are always so useful in breaking monotony. The dragon 
represents other-worldliness, the ‘‘fugitive’^ or yi principle we 
have mentioned before, and it represents great Taoist wisdom, 
for it often hides itself among clouds and seldom reveals its 
whole self. For so is the great Chinaman. Perfect in wisdom 
and in power, he yet often chooses to conceal himself. He 
could descend to the depths of mountain ponds as he could 
rise to the clouds. Beneath the dark waters of the deep pond we 
cannot see any trace of his existence, but when he rises, like 
Chuko Liang, he commlses the whole world. For floods in 
China are always caused by the movements of the dragon, and 
sometimes we can see him swooping up to heaven in a column 
of clouds, amidst thunder and lightning, tearing up house- 
roofs and uprooting old banyan trees. Why, then, should we 
not worship the dragon, the embodiment of power and wisdom? 

But, then, the dragon is not a purely mythological or ante- 
dilurian entity. To the Chinese, the mountains and rivers are 
alive, and in many of the winding ridges of mountains we see 
the dragon’s back, and where the mountains gradually descend 
and merge into the plain or the sea we see the dragon’s tail. 
That is Chinese pantheism, the basis of Chinese geomancy. 
Thus, although geomancy is undeniably a superstition, it has 
a great spiritual and architectural value. Its superstition 
consists in the belief that by placing one’s ancestors’ tombs in a 
beautiful scenery, overlooking those dragon mountains and lion 
hills, one can bring good luck and prosperity to the dead man’s 
descendants. If the location and the landscape scenery are truly 
unique, if, for instance, five dragons and five tigers unite in 



302 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

making homage to the tomb, it is almost inevitable that one 
descendant of the line should foimd an imperial dynasty, or at 
least become a premier. 

But the basis of the superstition is a pantheistic enjoyment of 
landscape, and gcomancy sharpens our eyes to beauty. We 
then tr\’ to see in the lines of mountains and general topo- 
graphy the same rhythm we see in animal forms. Everywhere 
we turn, nature is alive. Its rhythmic lines sweep east and 
west and converge toward a certain point. Again in the 
beauties of the mountains and rivers and general topography, 
we see not a beauty of static proportions but a beauty of move- 
ment. A curv^e is appreciate less because it is a curv^e than 
because it is a sweeping gesture, and a hyperbola is more 
appreciated than a perfect circle. 

The aesthetics of Chinese geomancy has therefore a veiy^ close 
bearing on Chinese architecture in the broad sense of the word. 
It compels discrimination of the setting and the landscape. 
By the side of an ancestral grave of one of my friends there was 
a little pool. The pool was regarded as propitious because it 
was interpreted as a dragon’s eye. And when the pool was 
dried up, the family lost its fortune. As a matter of fact, the 
pool, set at one side a distance below* the grave, was aesthetically 
an important element in the general setting of the grave, 
balancing a line on the other side in a subtly beautiful manner. 
It w*as, indeed, like the last dot put on the picture of a dragon, 
representing its eye and making the whole picture alive. In 
spite of the superstition and occasional bitter family feuds or 
clan wars caused by it, as when someone builds a structure to 
obstruct the perfect sweep and rhythm of line enjoyed from the 
point of the grave or the ancestral hall, or someone digs a 
ditch somewhere and therefore breaks the neck of the dragon 
and dispels all hopes of the family’s rise to power — in spite of 
all this, I wonder very much whether geomancy has not 
contributed more to the richness of our aesthetic life than it has 
hindered our knowledge of geology. 

For the last and most important element of Chinese archi* 
tccturc always remains its essential harmony with nature. In 
a w^ay, the setting is more important than the jewel. Archi- 
tecture that is perfect in itself but does not fit into the landscape 



the artistic life 


303 


can only jar^ us by its disbamony and by its violent self- 
^ertion, which we call bad taste. The best architecture is 
that which loses itself in the natural landscape and becomes one 
wtn It, belong to it. This principle has guided all forms of 
Chinese architecture, from the camel-back bridge to the 
pagoda, the temple and the little open pavilion on the edge of a 
pon . ts lines should soothe but not obtrude. Its roofi should 
benea^ the kind shade of trees and soft boughs 
s ou gently brush its brow. The Chinese roof does not shout 
out ou ^ddo^ not point its fingers at heaven. It only shows 
peace an bows in modesty before the firmament. It is a sign 
^ 'vhere we humans live, and it suggests a certain 
oun 0 decency by covering up our human habitations, 
r ]\e a %a)s remember to put a roof on all our houses, and 

heaven in their unashamed 

nakdn«shke modem concrete buildings. 

1 ^f*^bitecture is that in which we are not made to 
\v ere namre ends and where art begins. For this, the use 
s^^preme importance. The terra-cotta walls of 
inese temple merge harmoniously into the purple of 

blue”^ 31 r f ^ laid in green, Prassian 

stand and look at it from a distance and caU it beautiful. 



Chapter Mne 

THE ART OF LIVING 


I. The Pleasxjres of Life 

WE do not know a nation until we know its pleasures of life, 
just as we do not know a man until we know how he spends his 
leisure. It is when a man ceases to do the things he has to do, 
and does the things he likes to do, that his character is revealed. 
It is when the repressions of society and business are gone and 
when the goads of money and fame and ambition are lifted, 
and man’s spirit wanders where it listeth, that we sec the 
inner man, his real self. life is harsh and polidcs is dirty and 
commerce is sordid, so that it would often be unfair to judge a 
man by his public life. For this reason, I find so many of our 
polidcal scoundrels are such lovable human beings, and so 
many of our futile bombastic college presidents extremely good 
fellows at home. In the same way, I think the Chinese at 
play are much more lovable than the Chinese in business. 
Whereas the Chinese in polidcs are ridiculous and in society 
are childish, at leisure they are at their best. They have so 
much leisure and so much leisurely joviality. This chapter of 
their life is an open book for anyone who cares to come near 
them and live with them to read. There the Chinese are truly 
themselves and at their best, because there they show their 
best characteristic, geniality. 

Given extensive leisure, what do not the Chinese do? They 
eat crabs, drink tea, taste spring water, sing operatic aks, 
fly kites, play shuttle-cock, match grass blades, make paper 
boxes, solve complicated wire puzzles, play txihjongy gamble and 
pawn clothing, stew ginseng, watch cock-fights, romp with their 
children, water flowers, plant vegetables, graft fruits, play chess, 
take baths, hold conversations, keep cage-birds, take afternoon 
naps, have three meals in one, guess fingers, play at palmistry. 



THE ART OF LIVING 


305 

gossip about fox spirits, go to operas, beat drums and gongs, 
play the flute, practise on calligraphy, munch duck-gizzards, 
salt carrots, fondle walnuts, fly eagles, feed carrier-pigeons, 
quarrel with their tailors, go on pilgrimages, visit temples, 
climb mountains, w’atch boatraces, hold bullfights, take 
aphrodisiacs, smoke opium, gather at street comers, shout at 
aeroplanes, fulminate against the Japanese, wonder at the 
white people, criticize their politicians, read Buddhist classics, 
practise deep-breathing, hold Buddhist seances, consult fortune- 
tellers, catch crickets, eat melon seeds, gamble for moon-cakes, 
hold lantern competitions, bum rare incense, eat noodle, 
solve literary riddles, train pot-flowers, send one another birth- 
day presents, kow-tow to one another, produce children, and sleep. 

For the Chinese have ahvays had geniality, joviality, taste 
and finesse. The great majority still keep their geniality and 
their joviality, although the educated ones in modem China 
are usually bad-tempered and pessimistic, having lost all their 
sense of values. Few of them still show any taste and finesse, 
and this is natural, for taste comes tvith tradition. Man is 
taught to admire beautiful things, not by books but by social 
e.xample, and by living in a society’ of good taste. The spirit 
of man in the industrial age is ugly, any-ivay, and the spirit of 
man in China, throwing overboard all that is best and finest in 
their social tradition in a mad rush for things Western without 
the Western tradition, is uglier still to look at. In the whole 
villadom of Shanghai, with all its millionaires, there is only one 
decent Chinese garden and it is owned by a Jew. All of the 
Chinee have gone in for the tennis lawn and geometric 
flower-beds and trimmed hedges, and tailored trees trained to 
look a perfect circle or a perfect cone, and flowers planted to 
represent letters of the English alphabet. Shanghai is not 
China, but Shanghai is an ominous indication of what modem 
China may come to. It leaves a bad flavour in our mouths like 
those Chinese-made Western cream-cakes made with pigs’ lard. 
And it jars on our senses like those Chinese brass bands playing 
“Onward, Christian Soldiers!” in a fimeral march. Tradition 
and taste must take time to grow up. 

There was taste in ancient China, and we can see what is 
lefi of it in beaiitifiil old fwilrViiodiofrc in _ 



306 my country and my people 

papers, in old porcelain, in great paintings, and in all the old 
knick-lnacks not yet touched by the modem influence. One 
cannot fondle the beautiful old books or see the scholars’ 
letter-papers without seeing that man’s spirit in old China had 
an understanding of tone and harmony and mellow colours. 
Only or three decades ago there was still a time when men 
wore gowns of the ducks’-egg green, and women wore mauve, 
and when cripe de Chine was really cripe de Ckine^ and good red 
ink-pad for the seal still had a market. Now the whole silk 
industry has collapsed recently because artificial silk is so much 
cheaper, and it washes so well, and good red ink-pad, costing 
thirty-two dollars an ounce, has no market because it has given 
place to purple ink for mbber stamps. 

This ancient geniality is b^t reflected in the Chinese familiar 
c^say, hsiaopHnweny which is the product of the Chinese spirit 
at play. The pleasures of a leisurely life are its eternal themes. 
Its subject-matter covers the art of drinking tea, the carving of 
seals and the appreciation of the cuts and the quality of the 
stones, the training of pot-flowers and the caring for orchids, 
boating on the lake, cUmbing historically famous mountains, 
vititing ancient beauties’ tombs, composing poetry under the 
moon and looking at a storm on a high mountain — all written 
in a style leisurely and chatty and suave, as disarmingly hos- 
pitable as a friend’s chat by the fireside and as poetically 
disorderly as the recluse’s dress, a style trenchant and yet 
mellow, like good old wine. And through it all pervades the 
spirit of man happy with himself and the universe, poor in 
possessions but rich in sentiments and discriminating in taste, 
experienced and full of worldly wisdom and yet simple- 
hearted, a bottle of emotions and yet apparently indifferent 
to all the outside world, cynically contented and wisely idle, 
loving simplicity and good material living. This spirit of geniality 
is best seen in the Preface to All Men Are BrotherSy attributed to 
the author, but really forged by the great seventeenth-century 
critic, Gh’in Shengt’an. This Preface, in itself an excellent ex- 
ample of the Chinese familiar essay regarding both manner and 
matter, reads like an essay on Leisure, and the amazing thing 
is that it was intended by its author as a preface to a novel.^ 

1 See translation by Pearl S. Buck in All Men Are Brothers, John Day. 1933. 



THE ART OF LIVING 


307 

In China, man knows a great deal about the art of all arts, 
viz., the art of living. A younger civilization may be keen on 
making progress, but an old civilization, having seen naturally 
a great deal of life, is keen only on livdng. In the case of China, 
with the spirit of humanism, which makes man the centre of all 
things and human happiness the end of all knowledge, this 
emphasis on the art of linng is all the more natural. But even 
without humanism, an old civilization must have a different 
standard of values, for it alone knows ^'the durable pleasures 
of life,” wliich are merely matters of the senses, food, drink, 
house, garden, women, and friendship. That is what life comes 
to in its essence. That is why in old cities like Paris and Vienna 
we have good chefe, good wine, beautiful women and beautiful 
music. After a certain point human intelligence struck a blind 
alley, and, dred of asking questions, took again the vine for its 
spouse in the Khayyam manner. Any nation, therefore, 
that does not know how to eat and enjoys living like the Chinese 
is uncouth and uncivilized in our ey^es. 

In the works of Li Liweng (sev’enteenth century^), there is an 
important section devoted to the pleasures of life, which is a 
v^ade-mecum of the Chinese art of living, from the house and 
garden, interior decorations, partitions, to women’s toilet, 
coiffures, the art of apphing powder and rouge, on to the art 
of cooking and directions for the gourmet^ and finally to the ways 
of securing pleasure for the rich man and the poor man, and 
in all the four seasons, the methods of banning worry, regulating 
sex-life, preventing and curing illness, ending in the unique 
division of medicine into the very sensible three categories: 
^‘medicine that one likes by temperament,” ‘‘medicine that is 
needed by the moment,” and “medicine that one loves and 
longs for.” This chapter alone contains more wisdom regarding 
medical advice than a whole college course of medicine. This 
epicure dramatist, for he was a great comic poet, spoke of what 
he knew. Some instances of his thorough understanding of the 
art of living are given here, as showing the essential Chinese 
spirit. 

Thus Li Liweng wrote about “Willows” in his intensdy 
human study of different flowers and trees and the art of 
enjoying them: 



>8 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

The important thing about willows is that their branches 
hang down, for if they did not hang down, they would not be 
willows. It is important that the branches be long, for otherwise 
they cannot sway gracefully in the wind. What then would be 
the use of their hanging down? This tree is a place where the 
cicadas love to rest, as well as the birds. It is to the credit of 
this tree that we often hear music in the air and do not feel 
lonely in summer. Especially is this the case with tall willow 
trees. In short, the planting of trees is not only to please the 
eye, but also to please the ear as w’ell. The pleasure of the 
eye is sometimes limited because w e are lying down on a bed. 
On the other hand, the ear can take its pleasure all the time. 
The most lovely notes of the birds are not heard when we 
are sitting but when we are lying down. Ever^^one knows that 
the birds^ songs should be heard at dawn, but does not know 
why they should be heard at dawn, as people do not think 
about it- The birds arc continually afraid of the shooting gun, 
and after seven o’clock in the morning all the people are up 
and the birds no longer feel at ease. Once they arc on their 
guard they can never sing whole-heartedly, and even if they 
sing their song cannot be beautiful. That is why daytime is 
not the proper time for listening to the birds. At dawm the 
people arc not up yet, with the exception of a few^ early risers. 
Since the birds are then free from wwry, naturally they can 
finish their song at ease. Besides, their tongues have been 
l>ing idle for the whole night, and are now' itching to try their 
skill. Consequently, when they sing they sing with the full 
gladness of their hearts. Chuangtse w^as not a fish and could 
understand the happiness of the fish; Liweng is not a bird 
and can understand the happiness of the birds. All singing 
birds should regard me as their bosom friend. . . . There 
are many points about the planting of trees, but there is one 
point which is an annoyance to the cultivated. When the 
tree-leaves arc too thick they shut out the moonlight, like 
shutting off a beauty from our \iew. The trees cannot be 
held guilty of this, because it is the men who are at fault. If 
we could spend a thought on this point at the time of 
planting trees, and allow a comer of the sky to be shown 
behind them in order to wait for the rising and setting of the 



THEARTOFLIVING 3O9 

moon, we could then receive its benefits both at night and 
day. 

Again, we see some very good sense in his advice on women^s 
dress: 

The important thing about women’s dress is not fineness of 
material but neatness, not gorgeous beauty but elegance, not 
tliat it agrees with her family standing but that it agrees with 
her face. ... If you take a dress and let several women try 
it on in succession, you will see that it agrees with some and 
not with others, because the complexion must harmonize 
with the dress. If a wealthy lady’s face does not agree with 
rich patterns but agrees with simple colours, and she should 
insist on having rich patterns, would not her dress be the 
enemy of her face? . . . Generally, one whose complexion 
is white and soft and whose figure is light and round will 
be shown to advantage in any dress. Light colours will show 
her whiteness but deep colours will still better show her 
whiteness. Dresses of fine material will show her delicacy 
but dresses of coarse material will still better show her 
delicacy. . . . But how few women are of this type? The 
average woman must choose her dress, and must not take 
any kind of material. . . , 

WTien I was young, I remember the young girls used to 
wear shades of pink, and the older women used to wear 
mauve, and later scarlet wets changed for pink, and blue was 
substituted for mauve, and still later scarlet gave place to 
purple and blue gave place to green. After the change of the 
dynasty [beginning of Manchu regime], both green and 
purple disappeared, and both young and old women changed 
into black. 

T^en Li Liweng went on to discuss the great virtue of black? 
his favourite colour: how it fitted all complexions and all ages? 
and how among the poor it enabled them to wear a dress 
longer without showing dirt, and how among the rich they 
could wear beautiful colours underneath, so that when the 
wind blew, the beautiful colours would be revealed underneath, 
leaving a great deal to the imagination. 



310 MY cou:n[try and my people 

Again, in the essay on “Sleep,” there is a beautiful section on 
the art of taking afternoon naps: 

The pleasure of an afternoon nap is double that of sleep at 
night. This is especially to be recommended for summer, but 
not for the other three seasons. This is not because I am 
favouring summer, but because a summer day is twice as 
long as a winter day, and a summer night is not equal to 
half a winter night. If a man rests only at night in summer, 
that means he is spending one-quarter of his time in recuper- 
ating and three-quarters in working. How can a man’s 
energy last under this arrangement? Besides, the summer 
heat is intensive and naturally brings about fatigue. It is as 
natural to go to sleep in fatigue as to eat when hungry, or to 
drink when thirsty. This is the soundest of all hygiene. After 
the midday meal, he should wait a while until the food is 
digested and then pace near the bed gradually. He should 
not have the idea of being determined to sleep, for if one sleeps 
with that idea the sleep is not sweet. He should first attend 
to something, and before the thing is done, a drowsiness 
comes over him, and the people of the dreamland come to 
beckon him, and he arrives at the fairy^ place without any 
effort or consciousness of his own. I like a line from an old 
verse: “My hands w'^hen wear>^ throw the book away and the 
afternoon nap is long.” When you hold a book in your hand, 
you have no idea of going to sleep, and when you throw it 
away, you have no idea of doing any reading. That is why 
you do it without any consciousness and without any effort. 
This is tlie alpha and omega of the art of sleeping. . . . 

WTien mankind knows the art of sleeping as Li Liweng describes 
it, then mankind may truly call itself civilized. 


IL House and Gaiuden 

Some of the principles of Chinese architecture have already 
been explained in the discussion on this subject. The Chin^ 
house and garden, however, present a more intricate aspect 



THE ART OF LIVING 


3II 

that deserv’es special attention. The principle of harmony with 
nature is carried further, for in the Chinese conception the 
house and garden are not separate, but are parts of an organic 
whole, as e\idenced in the yiiancheh, or ‘^garden-home/’ 

A house and a garden can never become an organic whole so 
long as w^e have a square building, surroimded by a mown 
tennis lawm. The w^ord for “garden” here does not suggest a 
lawn and geometric flower-beds, but a patch of earth where one 
can plant vegetables and fruits and sit under the shade of trees. 
The Chinese conception of the home require that the home, 
with a well, a poultry yard, and a few date trees, must be able 
to arrange itself commodiously in space. And given com- 
modious space, in ancient Cliina as in all rural chilizations, 
the house itself dwindles to a comparatively less important 
position in the general scheme of the home garden. 

Human civilization has changed so much that space is 
something that the average man cannot own and cannot have. 
We have gone so far that a man is entirely complacent w^hen he 
owns a mow of civilized lawn, in the midst of W'hich he succeeds 
in digging a five-foot pond to keep his goldfish and making a 
mound that w’ould not take ants five minutes to crawl to the 
top. This has changed entirely our conception of the home. 
There is no more poultry' yard, no well and no place where one’s 
children can catch crickets and get comfortably dirty. Instead, 
our home becomes physically like a pigeon’s house called 
an “apartment,” with a combination of buttons, switches, 
cabinets, rubber mats, keyholes, wires and burglar-alarms 
which we call a home. There are no attics, no dirt and no 
spiders. Our perversion of the idea of a home has gone so far 
that some Western people are even proud of the fact that they 
sleep on a bed which is the back of a daytime sofa. They 
show it to their friends and marvel at modem technological 
civilization. The modem spiritual home is broken up because 
the physical home has disappeared, as Edward Sapir pointed 
out. People move into a three-room flat and then wonder why 
they can never keep their children at home. 

The average poor Chinese in the country has more space of 
his own than a New York professor. But there are Chinese 
living in cities as well, and not all of them own huge gazdem. 



312 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

Art consists in doing with what one has on hand and still allow* 
ing for human fancies to come in and break the monotony of 
blank walls and cramped backyards. Shen Fu (middle 
eighteenth century), author of the Fousheng Liuchi, outlines in 
this tender little book, which reflects the best spirit of Chinese 
culture, how even a poor scholar can manage to have a beauti- 
ful house. From the principle of irregularity in Chinese archi- 
tecture we develop, with intricate human fancies, the principle 
of concealment and surprise, as capable of infinite development 
in the designing of the rich man’s country villa as in that of the 
poor scholar’s dwelling house. In Fousheng Liuchi {Six Chapters of 
a Floating Life) we find an important statement of this principle. 
With this formula we can, according to the author, make even 
a poor scholar’s house artistically satisfying. This principle 
is stated in the formula that we should “show the large in the 
mall and the small in the large, provide for the real in the 
;nreal and for the unreal in tlie real.” Shen Fu ssays: 

As to the planning ctf garden pavilions and towers, of 
winding corridors and outhouses, and in the designing of 
rockery or the training of flower-trees, one should try to show 
the small in the large and the large in the small, and pro\’ide 
for the real in the unreal and for the unreal in the real. One 
re%'eals and conceals alternately, making it sometimes 
apparent and sometimes hidden. This is not just “rhythmic 
irregularity,” nor does it depend on ha\’ing a wide space and 
a great expenditure of labour and material. Pile up a moimd 
with earth dug from the ground and decorate it with rocks, 
mixed with flowers; use live plum branches for your fence, 
and plant creepers over the walls. Thus there will be a hiH 
in a place which is without hills. In the big open spaces, 
plant bamboos that grow quickly and train plum trees with 
thick branches to cover them. This is to show the small in 
the large. When the courtyard is small, the wall should be 
a combination of convex and concave shapes, decorated with 
green, covered with ivy, and inlaid with big slabs of stone 
with inscriptions on them. Thus when you open your window 
you seem to face a rocky hillside, alive with rugged beauty. 
This is to show the large in the small. Contrive so that an 



THE ART OF LIVING 


3^3 

apparently blind alley leads suddenly into an open space and 
the kitchen leads through a backdoor into an unexpected 
courtyard. This is to pro\ide for the real in the unreal. Let 
a door lead into a blind courtyard and conceal the view by 
placing a few bamboo trees and a few rocks. Thus you 
suggest something which is not there. Place low balustrades 
along the top of a wall so as to suggest a roof garden which 
does not exist. This is to pro\dde for the unreal in the real* 
Poor scholars who live in crowded houses should follow the 
method of the boatmen in our native district who make 
clever arrangements with their limited space on the bows of 
their boats, making certain modifications. . . . When my 
wife and I were staying at Yangchow, we lived in a house 
of only two rooms, but (by such arrangements) the tw’o bed- 
rooms, the kitchen and the parlour were all arranged with an 
exquisite effect, and we did not feel the cramping of space, 
Yiin once said laughingly to me, “The arrangements are 
exquisite enough, but, after all, it lacks the atmosphere of 
a rich man’s house.’’ It was so indeed. 

Let us follow for a while these two guileless creatures, a 
poor Chinese scholar and his artistic \\dfe, and see how they 
try to squeeze the last drop of happiness from a poor and sorrow- 
laden life, always fearful of the jealousy of the gods and afraid 
that their happiness may not last. 

Once I visited my ancestral tombs on a hill and found some 
pebble of great beauty with faint tracings on them. On 
coming back I talked it over with Yun, and said: “People 
mix putty with Hsiianchow ston^ in white stone basins 
because the colours of the two elements blend. The yellow 
pebbles of this hill, however, are different, and although they 
are very elegant, they will not blend in colour with putty. 
What can we do?” “Take some of the worse quaEty,” said 
she, “and pound them into small pieces and mix them in the 
putty before it is dry, and perhaps when it is dry it will be of 
the same colour.” So we did as she suggested, and us^ a 
rectangular Yihsing earthen pot, over which we piled up a 
mountain peak on the left, coming down in undulations to 



314 my country and my people 

the right. On its back we made rugged square lines like those 
in the painting of Ni Yiinlin, so that the whole looked like a 
rocky precipice overhanging a river. On one side we made 
a hollow place which we filled with mud and on which w^e 
planted multi-leaf white duckweed. On the rocks we planted 
dodder. This took us quite a few days to finish. In late 
autumn the dodder grew all over the hill, like wistarias 
hanging down from a rock. The red dodder flowers made a 
striking contrast to the white duckweed, which had grown 
luxuriantly, too, from the pond underneath. Looking at it, 
one could imagine oneself transported to some fairy region. 
We put this under the eaves, and discussed between ourselves 
where we should put a pavilion, where we should put a 
farmer’s hut, and where we should put a stone inscription, 
“Where petals drop and waters flow,” And Yiin further 
discussed with me where we could build our home, where we 
could fish, and where we would have to jump across, all so 
absorbed as if we were moving into the little imaginary 
universe to live. One night two cats were fighting for food 
and it fell down from the eaves, broken into pieces, basin and 
all. I sighed and said, “The gods seem to be jealous even 
of such a little effort of our own.” And we both shed tears. 

What distinguishes a home from a public building is the 
personal touch that we give it, and the time and thought we 
spend on it. Home designs and interior decorations are not 
something that we can buy outright from an architect or a 
first-class firm, and it is only when this spirit of leisure and 
tender loving care exists that living at home can become an 
art and a pleasure. Both Shen Fu and Li Liweng show this 
tender love for the small things of life, and give ingenious advice 
on the training of flowers, the arrangement of flowers in vases, 
the use of courtyards, the art of perfuming, the art of m akin g 
windows look out on a superb view that could go into a painting, 
the hanging of scrolls, the arrangement of chairs, including 
Li Liweng’s invention of a heated desk with charcoal burning 
underneath so as to the feet warm in winter. It would be 
manifestly impossible to go into all these details of interior 
decoration. Suffice it to say that in the arrar^ement of court- 



THE ART OF LIVING 315 

yards and the scholars' studios, and in the arrangement of vases, 
the essential idea is the beauty of simplicity. Many of the 
scholars* studies are made to look out on a small clean court- 
yard, which is the very’ embodiment of quietude itself In the 
middle of that courtyard stand just two or three of those 
rhythmic and perforated rocks, bearing the mark of sea-waves, 
or some rare specimens of fossilized barks, and a small bush of 
bamboos which are so loved because of the fineness of their 
lines. Perhaps in the wall is a fan-shaped window with glazed 
tiles in bamboo pattern as bais, giving just the merest suggestion 
of the existence of a world of wheat fields and farmers* houses 
outside. 

The principle of surprise which Shen Fu outlined for the 
poor scholar’s small residence holds good in a rich man’s home 
garden. The English word “garden” gives an entirely erron- 
eous idea of the Chinese for “garden” suggests a lawn and 
an infinite variety of flowers, altogether too prim and tidy to 
suit Chinese taste. The Chinese suggests first of all a wild 
landscape, perhaps better arranged and more artistically 
planned than nature, but still a bit of nature itself, with trees, 
mounds, creeks, bridges, a rowing boat, a patch of vegetable 
fields, fruit trees and some flowers. Dotted in this natural 
landscape are the human structures, the bridges, pavilions, 
long winding corridors, irregular rockeries, and sweeping roofs, 
so perfectly belonging to the scenery as to become a whole with 
it. There are no even-cut hedges, no perfectly conical or 
circular trees, no symmetric rows lining avenues as if in battle 
formation, and no straight pavements — none of aO those 
elements that contribute to make Versailles so ugly in Chinese 
eyes. Everywhere w’c see curves, irregularity, concealment 
and suggestion. 

No Chinese mansion allows an outsider to look through the 
iron gates at a long drive, for that would be against the prin- 
ciple of concealment. Facing the gate, we see perhaps a small 
courtyard or a mound giving no idea whatsoever of the expan- 
siveness of space inside, and leading one step by step into newer 
and bigger views, in a continual series of surprises and astonish- 
ments. For wc wish to show the small in the large, and show the 
laige in the small. There is little possibility of gaining a birdV 



3x6 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

eye view of the whole at a glance, and if there were, there 
would be notliing left for the imagination. The Chinese garden 
is characterized by studied disorderliness, which alone can 
give the feeling of the infinite and make one imagine the garden 
to be larger than it is. 

There is something amounting to religious fen^our and 
sacred devotion when a cultivated rich Chinese scholar begins 
planning for his garden. The account of Ch’i Piauchia 
(1602-1645) is interesting as showing this spirit. 

In the beginning, I wanted to build only four or five rooms, 
and some friends told me where I should build a pavilion 
and where I should build a summer-house. I did not think 
seriously of these suggestions, but after a while these ideas 
would not let me alone, and it seemed indeed I should have a 
pa\ilion here and a summer-house there. Before I had fin- 
ished the first stage, new ideas forced themselves upon me, 
and they chased after me in all out-of-the-way places, and 
sometimes they came to me in my dreams, and a new vista 
opened before my imagination. Hence my interest grew 
more and more intense every day and I would go to the 
garden early in the morning and come back late at night, 
and leave any domestic business to be attended to under 
the lamplight. Early in the morning, while resting on my 
pillow, I saw the first rays of the morn and got up and asked 
my serv'ant to go with me on a boat, and although it was only 
a mile off, I was impatient to get to the place. This con- 
tinued through winter and summer, rain or shine, and 
neither the biting cold nor the scorching sun could restrain 
ne from it, for there was not a single day when I was not out 
an the spot. Then I felt under my pillow, and knew my 
money was gone, and felt annoyed over it. But when I 
arrivtii at the spot, I wanted always more and more stones 
and material. Hence for the last tw^o years my purse is 
always empty, and I have been ill and got well again, and 
fallen iU again. . . . There are two halls, three pavilions, 
four oHTidors, two towers and three embankments. ... In 
general, where there is too much space I put in a thing; 
whore it is too crowded I ^kc away a thing; where things 



THE ART OF LIVING 


33 

cluster together I spread them out; where the arrangement 
too diffuse I tighten it a bit; where it is difficult to walk upon 
I level it; and where it is level I introduce a little unevenness. 
It is like a good doctor curing a patient, using both nourishing 
and excitative medicines, or like a good general in the field, 
using both normal and surprise tactics. Again it is like a 
master painter at his work, not allowing a single dead stroke, 
or like a great writer writing essays, not permitting a single 
unharmonious sentence. . . . 

Harmony, irregularity, surprise, concealment and suggestion 
— these are some of the principles of Chinese garden-planting, 
as they are of other forms of Chinese art. 


III. Eating and Drinkino 

The question has often been asked as to what we eat. The 
answer is that we eat all the edible things on this earth. We 
eat crabs by preference, and often eat barks by nec^ity. 
Economic necessity is the mother of our inventions in food. We 
are too over-populated and famine is too common for us not to 
cat everything we can lay our hands on. And it stands to 
reason that in this positively exhaustive experiment on edibles, 
we should have stumbled upon important discoveries, as most 
scientific or medical discoveries have been stumbled upon. For 
one thing, we have discovered the m^ic tonic and building 
qualities of ginsengs for which I am willing to give personal 
testimony as to its being the most enduring and most energy- 
giving tonic known to mankind, distinguish^ by the slowness 
and gentleness of its action. But apart from such accidental 
discoveries of medical or culinary importance, we are 
undoubtedly the only truly omnivorous animals on earth, and 
so long as our teeth last, we should continue to occupy that 
position. Some day a dentist will yet discover that we have the 
best teeth as a nation. Gifted with these teeth and driven by 
famine, there is no reason why we should not at some particular 
time of our national life suddenly discover that roasted beeties 
and fried bees* chrysalis are great delicacies. The oaaly thing 



3i8 my country and my people 

we have not discovered and will not eat is cheese. The Mongols 
could not persuade us to eat cheese, and the Europeans do not 
have a greater chance of doing so. 

It is useless to use logical reasoning in the matter of our food, 
which is determined by prejudices. On both sides of the Atlan- 
tic Ocean two shellfish are common, the soft-shelled clam, 
Mja aremria^ and the edible mussel, Mytilus edulis. The species 
of these two molluscs are the same on both sides of the w^ater. 
In Europe, mussels are eaten freely, but not clams, while the 
reverse is the case on the American side, according to the 
authority of Dr. Charles W. Townsend {Scientific Monthly^ 
July, 1928). Dr. Towmsend also mentions the fact that floun- 
ders fetch high prices in England and in Boston but are con- 
sidered “not fit to eat” by Newfoundland villagers. We eat 
mussels with the Europeans and eat clams with the Americans, 
but w’€ don’t eat oysters raw as the Americans do. It is useless, 
for instance, for anybody to convince me that snake’s meat 
tastes like chicken. I have lived in China forty years without 
eating a snake, or seeing any of my relatives do so. Tales of 
eating snakes travel faster than tales of eating chicken, but 
actually we eat more chickens and better chickens than the 
white people, and snake-eating is as much a curiosity to the 
Chinese as it is to the foreigners. 

All one can say is that w^e are very catholic in our tastes, and 
that any rational man can take anything off a Chinese table 
without any qualm of conscience. What famine dictates is not 
for us human mortals to choose. There is nothing that a man 
will not eat when hard pressed by hunger. And no one is 
entitled to condemn until he knows what famine means. Some 
of us have been forced in times of famine to eat babies — and 
even this must be humanly rare — but, thank God, we do not 
eat them raw as the English eat their beef! 

If there is anything we are serious about, it is neither religion 
nor learning, but food. We openly acclaim eating as one of 
the few joys of this human life. This question of attitude is 
very important, for unless we are honest about it we will never 
be able to lift eatmg and cooking into an art. The difference 
of attitude regarding the problem of food is represented in 
Europe by the French and the English. The French eat 



THE ART OF LIVING 


319 

enthusiastically, while the English eat apologetically. The 
Chinese national genius decidedly leans toward the French 
in the matter of feeding ourselves. 

The danger of not taking food seriously and allowing it to 
degenerate into a slipshod business may be studied in the 
English national life. If they had known any taste for food 
their language would reveal it. The English language does not 
provide a word for cuisine: they call it just ‘‘cooking.” They 
have no proper word for chef: they just call him a cook. They 
do not speak about their menu^ but know only what are called 
“dishes.” And they have no word for gourmet: they just call 
him “Greedy Gut” in their nursery rhymes. The truth is, 
the English do not admit that they have a stomach. No 
stomach is fit for conversation unless it happens to be “sick” 
or “aching.” The result is that while the Frenchman will 
talk about the cuisine of his chef with — what seems to the English 
mind — ^immodest gestures, the Englishman can hardly venture 
to talk about the “food” of his “cook” without impairing the 
beauty of his language. When hard pressed by his French 
host he might be willing to mutter between his teeth that “that 
pudding is awfuUy good” and there let the matter rest. Now 
if a pudding is good it is good for some definite reasons, and 
about these problems the Englishman does not bother himsdf. 
All the English are interested in is how to strengthen themselves 
against influenza, as with Bovril, and save the doctor’s bills. 

Now you cannot develop a national culinary art unless you 
are willing to discuss it and exchange your opinions on it The 
first condition of learning how to eat is to about it Only 
in a society wherein people of culture and refinement inquire 
after their cooks’ health, instead of talking about the weather, 
can the art of cuisine be developed. No food is really enjoyed 
unless it is keenly anticipated, discussed, eaten and then com- 
mented upon. Preachers should not be afraid to condemn a 
bad steak from their pulpits and scholars should write essays 
on the culinary art as the Chinese scholars do. Long before 
we have any special fixxi, we think about it, rotate it in our 
minds, anticipate it as a secret pleasure to be shared with 
some of our dosi^t firiends, and write notes about it in our in- 
vitation letters, like the following: “My nephew has just brought 



320 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

some special vinegar from Chinkiang and a real Nanking 
salted duck from Laoyuchai,” or this, “This is the end of June, 
and if you don’t come, you won’t taste another shad till next 
May.” Long before the autumn moon rises, a real scholar, like 
Li Liweng as he himself confesses, would plan and save money 
for the crabs, decide upon an historical place where he could 
have the crab dirmer with his friends under the mid-autumn 
moon or in a wilderness of chrysanthemums, negotiate with 
some of his friends to bring wine from Governor Tuan Fang’s 
cellar, and meditate upon it as the English meditate upon their 
champion sweepstakes number. Only in this spirit can the 
matter of feeding ourselves be elevated into the level of an 
art. 

We are unashamed of our eating. We have “Su Timgp’o 
pork” and “Kiang bean-curd.” In England, a Wordsworth 
steak or Galsworthy cutlet would be unimaginable. Words- 
worth sang about “simple living and high t h i n king,” but he 
failed to note that go<^ food, especially fresh-cut bamboo- 
shoots and mushrooms, counts among the real joys of a simple 
rural life. The Chinese poets, with a more utilitarian philo- 
sophy, have frankly sung about the “minced perch and shun- 
v^table soup” of their native home. This thought is regarded 
as so poetic ^at oflScials in their petition for resignation will 
say that they are “thinking of rAan- vegetable” as a most elegant 
expression. Actually our love of fatherland is largely a matter 
of recollection of the keen sensual pleasures of our childhood. 
The loyalty to Uncle Sam is the loyalty to American dough- 
nuts, and Ae loyalty to the Vaierland is the loyalty to Pfarm- 
kuchm and StoUen, but the Americans and the Germans will not 
admit it. Many Americans, while abroad, sigh for their ham 
and sweet potatoes at home, but they will not admit that this 
makes them think of home, nor will they put it in their poetry.^ 

The seriousness with which we regard eating can be shown 
in many ways. Anyone who opens the pagra of the Red Chamber 
Dream or of any Chinese novd will be struck by the detailed 
and constant descriptions of the entire menu of what Taiyii 

» A strDdng fact is the frequency of words like "intestines*' and "belly** in 
Chinese |>oetry: ^ . jf., "The bamboo-shoots axe fresh and my rice-bowl is too 
amah; the &aih is delicknis, and my wine-intestines widen/' 



THE ART OF LIVING 


321 

had for breakfast or what Paoyti had at midnight. Cheng 
Panch’iao apotheosized rice congee in his letter to his brother: 

On cold days, when poor relatives or friends arrive, first 
hand them a bowl of fried rice in boiling water, with a 
small dish of ginger or pickles. It is the most eSective means 
of warming up old people and the poor. In your days of 
leisure, swallow cakes made of broken rice, or cook “slip- 
slop congee,” and hold the bowl between your two hands and 
eat it with shrugged shoulders. On a cold frosty morning, 
this wiU make your whole body warm. Alas! Alas! I think 
ril become a farmer for the remainder of my days! 

The Chinese accept food as they accept sex, women and life 
in general. No great English poet or writer w'ould condescend 
to write a Cook Book, which they regard as belonging outside 
the realms of literature and worthy of the efforts of Aunt 
Susan only. But the great poet-dramatist Li Liweng did not 
consider it beneath his dignity to write about the cooking of 
mushrooms and aU kinds of vegetarian and non-vegetarian 
foods. Another great poet and scholar, Yttan Mei, wrote a 
whole book on cooking, besides writing a most wonderful essay 
on his cook. He described his cook as Henry James described 
the English buder, as a man carrying himself with dignity and 
understanding in his profession. But H. G. Wells, who of all 
English minds is the one most likely to write about English 
food, evidendy cannot write it, and no hope is to be expected 
from the less encyclopaedic minds. Anatole France was the 
type that might have left us some wonderful recipe for frying 
calTs liver or cooking mushrooms, possibly in his intimate 
letters, but I doubt very much wheAer he h^ left it as part of 
his literary heritage. 

Two principles distinguish Chinese from European cookii^. 
One is that we eat food for its texturt, the elastic or crisp effect it 
has on our teeth, as wcD for fragrance, flavour and colour, li 
liweng said that he was a slave to crabs, because they had the 
combination of fragrance, flavour and colour. The idea 
texture is seldom understood, but a great part of the popularity 
(ff bamboo^oots is due to the fine resistance the young shoots 
give to our teeth The appreciation of bamboo-shoots is 



322 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

probably the most typical example of our taste. Being not 
oily, it has a certain fairy-like “fugitive” quality about it. But 
the most important principle is that it lends flavour to meat 
(especially pork) cooked with it, and, on the other hand, it 
receives the fla%’our of the pork itself. This is the second 
principle, that of mixing of flavours. The whole culinary airt of 
r.htna depends on the art of mixture. While the Ghnese 
recognize that many things, like fresh fish, must be cooked in 
their own juice, in general they mix flavours a great deal more 
than Western cooks do. No one, for instance, knows how 
cabbage tastes until he has tasted it when properly cooked 
with chicken, and the chicken flavour has gone into the cabbage 
and the cabbage flavour has gone into the chicken. From this 
principle of mixture, any number of fine and delicate combina- 
tions can be developed. Celery, for instance, may be eaten 
raw and alone, but when Chinese see, in a foreign dinner, 
vegetables like spinach or carrots cooked separately and then 
served on the same plate with pork or roast goose, they smile 
at the barbarians. 

The Chinese, whose sense of proportion is so wonderfully 
acute in painting and architecture, seem to have completely 
lost it in the matter of food, to which they give themselves 
whole-heartedly when they seat themselves around a dinner- 
table. Any big course, like the fat duck, coming after twelve or 
thirteen other courses, should be a sufficient meal in itself for 
any human being. This is due to a false standard of courtesy, 
and to the fact that as course after course is served during 
dinners, the people are supposed to be occupied in different 
wine-games or contests of poetry during the intervals, which 
naturally lengthens the time required and gives more time for 
the stomach to assimilate the food. Most probably the relatively 
lower efficiency of Chinese government officials is due directly 
to the fact that all of them are subjected to an inhuman routine 
of three or four dinners a night. One-fourth of their food goes 
to nourish them and three-fourths to kill them. That accounts 
for the prevalence of rich men’s ailments, like diseases of the 
liver and the kidneys, which are periodically announced in the 
newspapers when these officials sec fit to retire from the poli- 
tical arena for reasons of conveniaice. 



THE ART OF LIVING 


Although the Chinese may leam from the West a great d- 
about a sense of proportion in arranging for feasts, they have, 
in this field as in medicine, many famous and wonderful recipes 
to teach the W^temers. In the cooking of ordinary things like 
vegetables and chickens, the Chinese have a rich store to hand 
to the West, when the West is ready and humble enough to 
leam it This seems unlikely until China has built a few good 
gun-boats and can punch the West in the jaw, when it will be 
admitted that we are unquestionably better cooks as a natiom 
But until that time comes, there is no use talking about it. 
There are thousands of Englishmen in the Shanghai Settlement 
who have never stepped inside a Chinese restaurant, and the 
Chinese are bad evangelists. We never force salvation on 
anybody who does not come to ask for it. We have no gun- 
boats, anyway, and even if we had, we would never care to go 
up the Thames or the Mississippi and shoot the English or the 
Ajnericans into heaven against their will. 

As to drinks, we are naturally moderate except as regarding 
tea. Owing to the comparative absence of distilled liquor, one 
very seldom sees dmnkards in the streets. But tea-drinking is 
an art in itself. It amounts with some persons almost to a cult. 
There are special books about tea-drinking as there are special 
books about incense and wine and rocks for house decoration. 
More than any other human invention of this nature, the 
diinldng of tea has coloured our daily life as a nation, and gives 
rise to the institution of tea-houses which are approximate 
equivalents of Western cafes for the common people. People 
drink tea in their homes and in the tea-houses, alone and in 
company, at committee meetings and at the settling of dis- 
putes. They drink tea before breakfast and at midnight. With 
a teapot, a Chinese is happy wherever he is. It is a universal 
habit, and it has no deleterious effect whatsoever, except in very 
rare cases, as in my native district where according to tradition 
some people have drunk themselves bankrupt. This is only 
possible with extremely costly tea, but the average tea is cheap, 
and the average tea in China is good enough for a prince. The 
best tea is mild and gives a “back-flavour” which comes after 
a minute or two, when its chemical action has set in on the 
salivary glands. Such good tea puts everybody in good htin^»iir» 



324 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

I have no doubt that it prolongs Chinese lives by aiding their 
digestion and maintaining their equanimity of temper. 

The selection of tea and spring water is an art in itself. I 
give here an example of a scholar in the beginning of the 
seventeenth century, Chang Tai, who wrote thus about his 
art of tasting tea and spring water, in which he was a great 
connoisseur with very few rivals in his time: 

Chou Molung often spoke to me in enthusiastic terms 
about the tea of Min Wenshui. In September of a certain 
year, I came to his town^ and w^hen I arrived, I called on 
him at Peach Leaves Ferry. It was already afternoon, and 
Wenshui was not at home. He came back late and I found 
him to be an old man. We had just opened our conversation 
when he rose suddenly and said that he had left his stick 
somewhere and went out again. I was determined not to 
miss this chance of having a talk with him, so I waited. 
After a long while, Wenshui came back, when it was already 
night, and he stared at me, saying, ^‘Are you still here? 
What do you want to see me for?” I said, have heard 
about your name so long, and am determined to have a 
drink with you to-day before I go!” Wenshui was pleased, 
and then he rose to prepare the tea himself. In a wonderfully 
short time it was ready. Then he led me into a room, where 
everything was neat and tidy, and I saw over ten kinds of 
Chingch’i pots and Hsiianyao and Ch’engyao teacups, which 
were all very rare and precious. Under the lamplight, I 
saw that the colour of the tea was not distinguishable from 
that of the cups, but a wonderful fragrance assailed my 
nostrils, and I fdt ever so happy. “What is this tea?” I 
asked. “Langwan,” Wenshui replied. I tasted it again and 
said, “Now don’t deceive me. The method of preparation 
is Langwan, but the tea-leaves are not Langwan.” “What 
is it then?” asked Wenshui smilingly. I tasted it again and 
said, ^‘Why is it so much like LocHeh tea?” Wenshui was 
quite struck by my answer and said, “Marvellous! Mar- 
vcUousi” ^‘What water is it?” I ask^. “Huich’iian,” he 
said. “Don’t try to make fun of me,” I said ^ain. “How 
can Huich’Uan water be carried here over a long distance, 



THE ART OF LIVING 325 

and after tlie shaJdng on the way still retain its keen- 
ness?” So Wenshui said, “I shan’t try to deceive you any 
longer. Wlien I take Huich’iian water, I dig a well, and wait 
at night until the new current comes, and then take it up. I 
put a lot of mountain rocks at the bottom of the jar, and 
during the voyage I permit only sailing with the wind, but 
no rowing. Hence the water still keeps its edge. This 
water is therefore better even than ordinary Huich’iian 
water, not to speak of water from other springs.” Again he 
said, “Marvellous! Marvellous!” and before he had finished 
his sentence, he went out again. Soon he came back with 
another pot, and asked me to taste it. I said, “Its fragrance 
is strong, and ite flavour is very mild. This must be spring 
tea, while the one we just had must be autumn tea.” Then 
Wenshui burst into laughter and said, “I am a man of 
seventy, and yet have never met a tea connoisseur like you.” 
After that, we remained fast friends. 

That art is now almost gone, except among a few old art- 
lovers and connoisseurs. It used to be very* difiicult to get good 
tea on the Chinese national railways, even in the first-class 
carriages, where Lipton’s tea, probably the most unpalatable 
to my taste, was served with milk and sugar. When Lord Lytton 
visited Shanghai he was entertained at the home of a prominent 
rich Chinese. He asked for a cup of Chinese tea, and he could 
not get it. He was served Lipton’s, with milk and sugar. 

But enough has been said to show that the Chinese, in their 
moments of sanitj?, know essentially how to live. The art of 
living is with them a second instinct and a religion. Whoever 
said that the Chinese civilization is a spiritual civilization is a 
liar. 



EPILOGUE 


1. The End of Life 

IN the general surv'ey of Chinese art and Chinese life, the 
con\iction must have been forced upon us that the Chinese 
are past masters in the art of living. There is a certain whole- 
hearted concentration on the material life, a certain zest in 
living, which is mellower, perhaps deeper, anyway just as 
intense as in the West. In China the spiritual values have not 
been separated from the material values, but rather help man 
in a keener enjoyment of life as it falls to our lot. This accounts 
for our joviality and our incorrigible humour. A heathen can 
have a heathenish devotion to the life of the present and 
envelop both spiritual and material values in one outlook, which 
it is difficult for a Christian to imagine. We live the life 
of the senses and the life of the spirit at the same moment, and 
see no necessary conffict. For the human spirit is used to 
beautify life, to extract its essence, perhaps to help it overcome 
ugliness and pain inevitable in the world of our senses, but 
never to escape from it and find its meaning in a life hereafter. 
When Confucius said, in reply to a question by a disciple on 
death, “Don’t know fife — how know death?” he expressed there 
a somewhat bourgeois, unmetaphysical and practical attitude 
toward the problems of life and knowledge which has charac- 
terized our national life and thinking. 

This standpoint stablishes for us a certain scale of values. 
In every aspect of knowledge and of living, the test of life holds. 
It accounts for our pleasures and our antipathies. The test of 
life was with us a racial thought, wordless and needing no 
definition or giving of reasons. It was that test of life which, 
instinctively I think, guided us to distrust civic civilization and 
uphold the rural ideal m art, life and letters, to dislike religion 
in our rational moments, to play with Buddhism but never 
quite accept its logical conclusions, and to hate mechanical 

3*6 



KFll-OCiUE 


327 

ingenuity. It was that instinctive trust in life that gave us a 
robust common sense in looking at life’s kaleidoscopic changes 
and the myriad vexatious problems of the intellect which we 
rudely ignored. It enabled us to see life steadily and see life 
whole, with no great distortions of values. It taught us some 
simple wisdom, like respect for old age and the joys of domestic 
life, acceptance of life, of sex and of sorrow. It made us lay 
emphasis on certain common virtues, like endurance, industry, 
thrift, moderation and pacificism. It prevented the develop- 
ment of freakish extreme theories and the enslaving of man by 
the products of his own intelligence. It gave us a sense of values, 
and taught us to accept the material as w’^ell as the spiritual 
goods of life. It taught us that, after ail is said and done, human 
happiness is the end of all knowledge. And we arrange ourselves 
to make our lives happy on this planet, imder w’hatever vicissi- 
tudes of fortune. 

We are an old nation. The eyes of an old people see in its 
past and in this changing modern life much that is superficial 
and much that is of true meaning to our lives. We are a little 
cynical about progress, and we are a little bit indolent, as are 
all old people. We do not want to race about in a field for a 
ball; we prefer to saunter along willow banks to listen to the 
bird’s song and the children’s laughter. Life is so precarious 
that when we know something truly satisfies us, we hold on to 
it tight, as a mother hugs her baby close to her breast in a dark, 
stormy night. We have really no desire for exploring the South 
Pole or scaling the Himalayas. When Westerners do that, wc 
ask, *‘What do you do that for? Do you have to go to the South 
Pole to be happy?” We go to the movies and theatres, but in 
the heart of our hearts we feel that a real child’s laughter ^ves 
us as much real joy and happing as an imaginary child’s 
laughter on the screen. We compare the two and we stay at 
home. We do not believe that kissing one’s own wife is nec^ 
saxily insipid, and that other people’s wives are necessarily 
more beautiful because they are other people’s wives. We do 
not ache to reach the foot of the mountain when we are in the 
xniddle of the lake, and we do not ache to be at the top of 
hill when we are at its foot. We drink what wine there is in tite 
pot and enjoy what scenery there is before our eyes. 



328 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

So much of life is merely a farce. It is sometimes just as well 
to stand by and look at it and smile, better perhaps than to 
take part in it. Like a dreamer awakened, we see life, not with 
the romantic colouring of yesternight’s dream but with a saner 
\ision. We are more ready to give up the dubious, the glam- 
orous and the unattainable, but at the same time to hold on to 
the few things that we know will give us happiness. We always 
go back to nature as an eternal source of beauty and of true 
and deep and lasting happiness. Deprived of progress and of 
national power, we yet throw open our windows and listen 
to cicadas or to falling autumn leaves and inhale the fragrance 
of chr>'Santhemums, and over the top there shines the autumn 
moon, and we are content. 

For we are now in the autumn of our national life. There 
comes a time in our lives, as nations and as individuals, w^hen 
we are pervaded by the spirit of early autumn, in which green 
is mixed with gold and sadness is mixed with joy, and hope is 
mixed with reminiscence. There comes a time in our lives 
when the innocence of spring is a memory and the exuberance 
of summer a song whose echoes faintly remain in the air, when, 
as we look out on life, the problem is not how to grow but how 
to live truly, not how to strive and labour but how to enjoy 
the precious moments we have, not how to squander our 
energy but how to conserve it in preparation for the coming 
winter. A sense of having arrived somewhere, of having settled 
and found out what w^e want. A sense of having achieved 
something also, precious little compared with its past exuber- 
ance, but still something, like an autumn forest shorn of its 
summer glory but retaining such of it as will endure. 

I like spring, but it is too young. I like summer, but it is 
too proud. So I like best of all autumn, because its leaves are 
a little yellow, its tone mellower, its colours richer, and it is 
tinged a little with sorrow and a premonition of death. Its 
golden richness speaks not of the innocence of spring, nor of the 
power of summer, but of the mellowness and kindly wisdom 
of approachii^ age. It knows the limitations of life and is 
content. From a knowledge of those limitations and its richn^ 
of experience emerges a symphony of colours, richer than 
ah, its green speaHug of life and strength, its orange speaking 



EPILOGUE 


3^9 

of golden content and its purple of resignation and death. 
And the moon shines over it, and its brow seems white with 
reflections, but when the setting sun touches it with an evening 
glow, it can still laugh cheerily. An early mountain breeze 
brushes by and sends its shivering leaves dancing gaily to the 
ground, and you do not know^ whether the song of the falling 
leaves is the song of laughter or of parting tears. For it is the 
Song of the Spirit of Early ^Autumn, the spirit of calm and 
wisdom and maturity, which smiles at sorrow itself and praises 
the exhilarating, keen, cool air — ^the Spirit of Autumn so well 
expressed by Hsin Ch’ichi; 

In my young days, 

I had tasted only gladness, 

But loved to mount the top floor. 

But loved to mount the top floor, 

To WTite a song pretending sadness. 

And now I’ve tasted 

Sorrow’s flavours, bitter and sour, 

And can’t find a word, 

And can’t find a word, 

But merely say, “What a gold autumn hour!” 

IL Real China 

[The following must not be taken as reflecting an the Rational 
Governmenty but rather on the immensity of the task which the Govern- 
ment is faced with in its gigantic work of evolving order out of chaos.] 

But let us be honest. It would be easy for a sinologue to 
paint a picture of idealized China, the Ch i n a of blue poredain 
bowls and the exquisite figures on the blue porcelain bowls, 
and the China of silk scrolls and the happy scholars sitting 
under pine trees on the scrolls. It would be easy to say with 
the sinologue: Even if Japan should conquer China for a few 
centuries, what of it? A Chinese cannot say: What of it? 
we are living in a real China, not the China of blue poredam 
bowls exquisite silk scrolls, but a C h i n a in the midst of 
pangs and throes of labour, a China facing the collapse of an 



330 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

empire and a civilization, a China of living millions of toiling 
humanity, with a desire to w^ork and to live, struggling against 
floods and famines and bandit-soldiers and a bandit-gentry, 
and Ii\ing in a state of chaos without meaning, turmoil without 
direction, unrest without change, verbiage without conviction, 
action without purpose, and misery without hope. And if one 
is a Chinese, one feels like saying with Hamlet that the time is 
sadly out of joint and cursed are we bom to set it right, or 
crying out with the Hebrews, ‘"O Lord! How long?” and it is a 
cry of despair which is not mere petulance, but a despair 
based on an intimate knowledge of present-day China as no 
foreigners know it. 

Paint as one will a glorious picture of dream-Ghina, the 
China of her classics and philosophy and art, sooner or later 
one will have to face the puzzle of a real China, and perhaps 
through a process of long and painful thought, demand of the 
past an answer to the present, and demand of the present a 
meaning for the future. To glorify the past and paint the future 
is easy, to survey the present and emerge with some light and 
understanding is difficult. For between the glorious past and 
the possibly glorious future there lies a valley, and one has to 
descend in order to ascend. There is need for a robust realism 
more than for innocent faith, and more for an open-eyed 
wisdom than for patriotic ardour; for patriotic ardour is a 
cheap commodity and can be had at so many cents a catty in 
the form of printer’s ink for the newspapers and blue paint 
for the yamen walls. 

There is a Chinese saying that it is better to be a dog in 
peaceful times than be a man in times of unrest. All Chinese 
are wishing they were dogs in peaceful times, but they have 
not that luck. For we are living in a period of complete and 
unxmtigated disillusionment, in a period of lack of fadth, not 
only in the present revolution but in all revolutions. Mencius 
has said that the greatest sorrow is the death of the heart, and 
now truly the heart is dead. The optimism and cheerful 
idealism of 1926 have given place to the cynicism and dis- 
illusionment of 1934, a rumbling cynicism visible in all news- 
paper articles and private talks. 

Slowly and laboriously has come the realizadon that the 



EPILOGUE 


33 X 

more we change, the more we remain the same; that underlpng 
the superficial changes of government system, the esseiitizd 
state of things, the essential corruption, futility and incom- 
petence remain, and the essential hopelessness. To Western 
admirers of Marco Polo’s Cathay, with its magnificence and 
grandeur, real China comes as a bad shock, and to the Chinese 
it comes as an admission of defeat. Slo^viy and painfully one 
realizes that we are still being ruled in the pro\inces by feudal 
chieftains with \’ulgar names and by their illiterate wives with 
sing-song names, and that the pro\ince is lucky which sees 
the t\pe of enlightened despotism of General Han Fucha, 
despite his woeful mediaevalism. Acting as governor, magis- 
trate, judge, jury and lawyer at the same time, he flogs the 
one and sends the other aw^ay with a hundred dollars according 
to his intuition and knowledge of physiognomy, and gives the 
people some sort of a rough justice and security. Then, all of a 
sudden, one realizes that w’e have but substituted a dozen 
disguised monarchies for a genuine one, and that the Revolu- 
tion of 1 91 1 was a success only in the sense of a racial revolution, 
that it only blew^ an empire into powder and left some ruins 
and debris and choking dust behind. Sometimes one wishes 
that China had remained a monarchy, and w'onders with 
regret why Tseng Kuofan did not march his soldiers on Peking 
after suppressing the Taiping Rebellion, and found a Chinese 
dynasty^ as he could very w ell have done, and as someone had 
advised him to do. But Tseng Kuofan was a Confiicianist 
scholar with moral scruples, and it took an unscrupulous 
imperial brigand to found an imperial dynasty* So much the 
worse for the people of China! 

Vain regrets. But how can one be blamed for these vain 
regrets, when one was brought up in a China before her com- 
plete disintegration? I can still recall the China of my 
childhood days, a China none too well ruled, it is true, but 
nevertheless a peaceful China. The greed and corruption and 
incompetence of the Manchu Government were the same, and 
some officials squeezed more than the others, but the worst 
ones were impeached and deposed or sent to jail, for there was 
a system. There were good governors and bad governor!^ but 
they were educated mandarins, and not onion-eating, oath- 



332 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

swearing, and hell-breathing war-lords, masters unto themselves 
and r ulin g by the grace of their illiterate fists. There were good 
magistrates and bad magistrates, some whom the people loved 
and some whom the people feared, but those who overstepped 
their limits encountered “to%vn strikes,” and their case was 
reported to the governor or the Emperor, and they were dis- 
missed, transferred or punished. Thus was there a system, 
howe%'er imperfect, and some sort of justice, however qualified, 
and where there was justice, there was peace. There were no 
civil wars, bandits were yet rare, and one could travel from 
one part of the province to another with security. 

For old China was not the topsy-turvydom it is to-day. If 
taxation was not based on the consent of the people, it was 
based on custom and usage, which was the real law of the land, 
and the farmers knew what they had to pay in spring and what 
they had to pay in autunrn. One had not yet heard of the cofiin 
tax, the wedding-sedan-chair tax^ and the pig-intercourse 
tax, the pig-birth tax, the young-pig tax, the pig-trough tax, 
the pig-weighing tax, the pig-butchery tax, and the pork- 
in-the-restauramt tax and finally the pork-after-the-digestion- 
and-in-the-toUet tax.® One had not yet heard of the righteous- 
ness tax and the benevolence tax and the civic welfare tax 
and the red-hot patriotism tax, and the house-number tax, 
and there was no “laziness tax” to punish the farmers who failed 
to plant opium. The farmers of China did not have to sell thek 
wives and daughters to pay the tax, as some farmers of Kiangpei 
are doing; they were not forbidden by soldiers to reap their 
harvest as a reprisal for failure to pay a new tax, as the farmers 
of Fanyu hsien in Kwangtung were forbidden by &eir magistrate 
in the autumn of 1934. People were not taxed thirty years 
ahead, as the people of Szechuen now are;® they were not 
subjected to farm surtaxes thirty times the regular farm tax, as 
is bdng done in Kiangsi.* The farmera were not compelled 

^ hi aoatliem Foldea, 

* Hiese varies taxes are known in Swatow and Hankow. 

* See vaxkms numbers of the Sxeckuen Monihly, 1934. 

^Wang CMngwei, speaking on the ninth anniversary of Hr. Sun^s death, 
March 12, 1934, 'Investigation conducted by the Rural Rehabilitation 
Commisskm last year showed that the farm surtax collected in different 
provizices sosnetunes amounted to from 23 to 31 times the regular farm tax*** 
iCkin» Pr$ss, March 13 , X934-) 



EPILOGUE 


333 

to pay taxes above their means and then taken to prison for 
failure to turn in the money and flogged so that you could hear 
their cries and moans all night, as you can hear the farmers of 
Shensi being flogged and crying and moaning in jail at night 
now.^ The poor people of Chi n a, the most misruled nation on 
earth, who are caught in a whirl of forces they cannot under- 
stand, but who abide it all with an indomitable industry and 
patience and real goodness which must eventually triumph. 
Let them turn bandits, when their last cow is sold. Let them 
turn beggars, when their last chattel has been taken away 
from them. The urge to work and to live rises indomitable, 
and they still keep their good humour, and for their goodness 
and their good humour, God will still love them. 

Surely there has been a dislodgement, a dislocation of 
national life and thought somewhere in a country which has 
known national greatness, but which is to-day ashamed of itself. 
Some maladjustment, or maladjustments, of a profound order, 
which disturb the mental balance and produce a temporary 
delirium, as if the spirit had left the body and the body made 
only futile, meaningless gestures. A madness and a loss of 
restraint and all decency, produced by a loss of national self- 
confidence, as if there were a common foreboding of evil, and 
man^s follies and evil passions are let loose in an each-man-for- 
himself and scramble-as-one-scramble-can fight, the goal of 
which is the buying of a house and a car to live in security 
in the foreign settlements, and the holding of a large account in 
the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. For 
surely a country is mad when some high officials and guardians 
of the Peiping National Museum cannot take their eyes off 
those national treasures until they have sold them to the 
highest bidders and converted them into cash in their private 
pockets, and when these ojBficials can safely reside somewhere 
and d^ the law court when they are publicly prosecuted. 
Surely a country is mad when a general, who lost the whole 
Jehol territory without putting up the pretence of a fight, but 
used two hundred military trucks to cart off his concubines aiKl 
his treastires, is pardoned by the National Government; whm 

^ According to a report by Professor Hstt Pmgcb'ang, ' 

number of t£e IndepsTtdent edited by Dr. Hot 



334 COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

SO many generals leave their arms and ammunition behind 
during a defeat, but take care to cart away their store of 
opium, for with opium they can get gold, and with gold they 
can buy themselves back into power; when the farmers are 
compelled to plant opium rather than rice in order to maintain 
a rabble and never-paid army; and when a famed agricultural 
country is compelled to import millions of taels of rice and wheat 
from abroad every year, and when in the midst of all this 
insanity the people, whose interests are immediately affected, 
cannot say “no” to their rulers and oppressors. Surely some- 
thing is wrong with the body politic, and the nation, as a 
nation, must have lost all its moral values and its sense of right 
and wrong. 

For it is apparent that a system of ideas has collapsed, ideas 
moral and ideas political. Old China had a system of govern- 
ment and a system of moral ideas which were adequate to 
maintain the national life, but which to-day are throvm out of 
their bearings and perhaps do more harm than good. Who 
would buy patience? Let them come to China, for patience in 
this coimtry can be had for the asking. And who would buy 
meekness and humility and all those nice Christian herd 
virtues that Christendom has not learned after two millen- 
niums of praying and psalm-singing and sermonizing? Let 
them come to China, for in pagan China these Christian virtues 
are as abundant as sands in the desert and as crocodiles in the 
Ganges. For a change of tempo has come over the national 
life, and instead of the primitive, patriarchal heyday of peace 
and leisure and courtesy, we are living in an age of haste and 
gold and self-assertion, and all the patience and meekness and 
humility that adorned the ancient pattern of life cannot retard, 
but rather must hasten, its collapse. 

It seems the race cannot adjust itself to a new world, with 
healthier, more aggressive people all around and demanding a 
new ethics to suit the new tempo of life; and, fearful and angry 
with itself, has lost its calm and poise and good sense for which 
it was so renowned. It has, it seems only so recently, lost its 
ethos and its national self-confidence, and from this loss of self- 
confidencc it has become freakish, bad-tempered, oversensitive, 
and does and says many ft>olish thii^, like an unhappy hus- 



EPILOGUE 


335 

band or an old man suffering from hardened veins. The nation 
frisks and frets, and alternates between megalomania and 
melancholia, and easily becomes hysterical. This is especially 
observ’able in the more articulate, I dare not say more intelli- 
gent, class, who are wont to get into fits of excitability, quite 
natural because they are fits of an overwhelming sense of 
helplessness, and then settle down to a permanent depression 
of spirits. Some of these scholars are ashamed of our own 
country, of our farmers and coolies, and of our own customs 
and language and arts and literature, and would like to cover 
China up with a huge shroud as if it were a stinking carcass, 
and allow foreigners to see only white-collared, English- 
speaking Chinese like themselves, wbereas the common people 
merely suffer and carry on. 

Then once in a while the subconscious leaps to the fore, 
and the ruling classes know that someone, not themselves of 
course, is running the country to perdition, and they turn 
moralists, and panaceas for “saving the country’” are offered. 
Some advocate salvation by learning the use of machine-guns, 
another by frugality and the wearing of sandals, another by 
dancing and wholesale introduction of W^tem life, another 
by selling and buying national goods, another by physical 
culture through good old boxing, another by learning Esper- 
anto, another by sa>ing Buddhist masses, another by reintro- 
ducing the Confucian classics in school, and another by 
“throwing the classics into the toilet for thirty years.” To hear 
them discussing the salvation of the country would be like 
listening to a council of quack doctors at a patient^s deathbed. 
It would be humorous if it were not so pathetic. Since a 
fundamental reform of the political life would mean the 
abolition of militarism and militarist interference with politics, 
and the weeding out of political corruption would mean the 
abolition of the privileges of the ruling class and sending ninety- 
five per cent of them to jail, both of which are obnoxious to 
themselves, they have turned themselves into moral uplifters 
and preached old morality which can injure and give offence 
to nobody. One sees everywhere a tumult and chaos, a tumult 
and chaos of the spirit more than of the body, a madness 
out method in its sham progressiveness as wdl as in its 



336 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

nationalisni. The highest oflficials of the Government alternate 
between initiating lama prayers for the salvation of the country 
and suppressing the traditional boatrace of the Dragon Festival 
by branding it as a superstition. The provincial governments, 
who find it so difl&cult to make any real achievements in recon- 
struction, find themselves very busy regulating the costumes 
of men and women, for the girls’ sleeves are too short in 
Kwangsi, and the men’s gowns are too long in Szechuen 
("because in this period of national crisis, we must save more 
cloth”), and the women’s hair should not be curled in Shan- 
tung, and the boys’ heads must be shaved close in certain 
schools in Himan, and the girls’ breasts should not be bound in 
Chekiang, and high-collared dress and high-heeled shoes 
should not be worn by the prostitutes in Nanking, and women 
should not keep male dogs and lead them through the streets 
in Peiping.^ 

All this confusion, this busy triviality, this madness and 
hypocrisy, and these exaggerations of pride and solicitude seem 
to indicate the existence of a wish unfulfilled, and a conflict 
of will and character. Custom and convention, which are the 
mainstay of any society, are no longer held in honour; the old 
can no longer command the respect of the young, and the 
young grow over-critical of the old; a deep chasm exists between 
the growing generation and mature age. Culture, which is 
the fruit of a continuity of life and thought, is no longer 
possible, and criticism, which is the sole guardian of modem 
culture, and which should keep a watchful eye over the flux 
of life, lies prostrate before a task too big for itself, while cheer- 
ful, robust good sense, for which C3aina was so distinguished, 
buries its head in shame, Man has something undernourished 
and neurasthenic, something partial and incomplete and 
eternally firustrated about him. 


III. A Quest for Leadership 

When I ponder over ail this confiision, meanness and 
insincerity, I fed like Gabrid asking Lot: Where are the good 
^ S«e tlie various 1933 numbers ol tbe AmUmis ^orhdgMy. 



EPILOGUE 


337 

men of China, and how many are they? Are there a hundred? 
Are there fifU"? Are there ten? Are there five? Or rather I 
wonder how I would answer Gabriel m^^elf. Are these muti- 
lated examples of undernourished neurasthenic half-men, so 
much in e\'idence with their busy triviality^ all we have left of 
man in modern China, so that a nation of four hundred 
million souls is condemned to carry on like a flock witliout a 
shepherd? WTiere have the good men hidden themselves, as 
if in shame? But I am reminded that the good men in China 
have always hidden themselves, have in fact always wanted to 
hide themselves in wine and women and song, or for the less 
emotional souls, in going back to the farm and living a simple 
life of nature. I am led then to ponder over the lack of con- 
stitutional protection in China, how' much this tremendous 
fact alone has altered profoundly the general outlook on life 
of the nation, has influenced its very philosophy of life, so that 
the philosophy of life is an outcome of the social and political 
environment rather than vice versa, and, through that change 
in philosophy of life from activity to passivity, how much 
goodness and constructive endeav’'our have been lost to the 
nation, and real progress thereby retarded. 

Man, it seems, has been more sinned against than sinning 
in China. For I remember Sung Chiang and the host of good 
souls who turned bandits in the end of the Northern Sung 
Dynasty. For these were brave glorious bandits, men who could 
afford to be good and chivalrous because physically they did 
not need any constitutional protection. And I remember 
how every great poet express^ his contempt for society by 
taking to wine and nature, how Gh’ii YOan in a rage jumped 
into the Hsiang River, and Li Po fell overboard in attempting 
to reach for the reflection of the moon, how T’ao Yiianming 
satisfied himself that his door was seldom opened to visitors 
and grass grew over his garden paths; how even great and 
upright Gonfucianists who retained a sense of right and wrong 
always ended in oflicial banishment, how Su Tungp’o was 
exiled to Huangchow, Han YiX was eriled to Gh’aochow and 
liu Ghungytian was exiled to liuchow. I remember how 
another class of truly great souls grew impatient of the small 
official burdaa and retired to their poetry and their simple 



338 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

village home; how Yiian. Chunglang, Yiian Md and Cheng 
Panch’iao, one and all, avoided politics like poison and learned 
to live at peace with their bowl of hot congee on a wnter 
morning and their bed-bugs and mosquitoes at night. I remem- 
ber how in times of national misrule and disorder the good 
scholars were hounded and thdr wives and children and 
distant relatives were murdered en masse, as during the begin- 
ning of the Manchu Dynasty, and I begin to see how they 
needed Buddhism, which some of them espoused, and the 
negative philosophy of life, which all of them espoused. 

Then I look over the modern times and see how the good 
men, as in all countries, have abstained from politics; how 
Wang Kuowei jumped into the lake of the Summer Palace, 
and K’ang Yuwei spent the last years of his life in lonely 
pride, and how Lusin shut himself up in dark and unmitigated 
despair until the call for the literary revolution came, and how 
Chang T’aiyen is to-day shutting himself up in Soochow, and 
how Hu Shih, the student of Dewey and influenced by a more 
progressive outlook, is pragmatizing and patching up the sores 
of the people, without great enthusiasm, but still unwiUmg to 
give up and turn China to the dogs— Hu Shih who, in a 
moment of prophetic fury, cried out, “If China does not perish, 
God is blind!” These are the good men of China who cannot 
help the country, for man has sinned against man, and the 
bad men have sinned against the good men, and the good men 
need a simple cotton gown for disguise. Yet there are other 
good men, not only five, not only fifty, but millions of them 
suffering sind carrying on, unsung and unheard of. The thought 
wrings pity from the onlooker that there should be so many 
good men and not a leader half the size of a Gandhi, that in 
China individually men are more mature, but politically and 
nationally we are as mere children. And I begin to seek for 
the causes and ask for the way out. 

I push the question further and ask: Why are we individuafly 
mature but politically and nationally mere children? And 
why, out of the millions of good men, are there so few great 
leaders to lead the rxation out of chaos? Have these potential 
leaders bear assassinated, caught the flu, or otherwise died an 
untimely death? Or have they grown old and feeble at forty; 



EPILOGUE 


339 

have they run against a social background too powerful and 
all-per\^ading for human reform, temporized, become frustrated 
and given themselves up for lost, unhappy souls, like the beauty 
in Po Chiip’s song who became a shopkeeper’s wife in middle 
age? Then I realize that perhaps the other minority were 
lucky, that they were indeed those God loved who died young 
and left a good name. Yet history seems to deny this accept- 
ance: history reveals and the Gonfucian theory of imitation 
affirms that in times of national crisis it is the great men who 
change the destiny of a nation. But then I remember that in 
the Chinese w^heel of success, many great men have been 
ground small. It would be easy to blame the system or the 
collapse of a system, and not the men. It would be easy to 
expound with a materialistic dialectic the logical outcome of 
militarism. It would be easy to demonstrate that the militarists 
are all good men, made victims of an unhappy cmironment, 
forced by the logic of their position to tax the people and 
strengthen themselves against their rivals, and exposed to a 
temptation too much for any human being to resist. Yet I 
remember how Japan passed through the same phase of 
militarism, triumphantly led by a great man, Prince Ito. But 
then, you may say, Japan is small, and one can lay the blame 
to the size of our nation. Then I remember the example of 
Russia, with the size of half a continent, and peopled with a 
peasantry just as poor and illiterate as the Chinese people, and 
a bourgeoisie just as indifferent and a gentry just as corrupt. 
Yet there was vigour in those old bones, and Old Russia 
shook off its old carcass and emerged the youngest child of the 
family of nations, radiant with hope and energy. And I say, 
Bah! with the materialistic dialectic! For if tixe times have 
sinned against the great men in China, the great men have 
sinned more against the times. 

The search for causes always leads back to a search for 
leadership, for courageous and honest leadership, for with 
Confucius I believe that great men, by their example, can 
change the whole morale of a nation, as Prince Ito did in 
Japan. I remember how in 1926 the whole nation was set cm 
fire by faith in the memory of a great leader, when a young 
party seoned to have emerged to lead the nation out of chaos 



340 MY COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

and dependency, how young men climbed over school walls 
and travelled a thousand miles to join a revolutionary army 
and gladly laid down their lives for the cause of a regenerated 
China; how only recently, in 1931, the guns of the Nine- 
teenth Route Army set the whole nation on fire once more, 
and the young and old gave unto their last penny and showed 
a mettle that no one had dreamed existed in the nation. Old 
China seemed in a moment to have found her soul again. Then 
the fire was dampened: it flickered, went out and left a dark- 
ness behind, for want of someone to tend and nourish it. If 
there were one, the smouldering ashes could be kindled into a 
glo^\ing flame again, even now. 


IV. The Way Out 

I turn my thoughts to other lines. It seems, then, that our 
steps are indeed caught in a hopeless tangle of dark realities, 
but it also seems to be otherwise. For here is a nation whose 
potential possibilities are yet unexplored, but lacking in some- 
thing to let loose these potential powers. Here is a nation of 
fine soldiers but bad captains, fine business men but bad 
business policies, fine friends but bad clubhouses, fine citizens 
but bad statesmen, and fine democratic men but a bad re- 
public. It only needs a system to put the nation in running 
order, a something which the nation woefully lacks. What is 
that thing? Big words with capital letters shoot across my 
mind, like Democracy, Morality, Grit, Spunk, Efficiency, A 
Good Executioner. , . . But what is Democracy? The 
Chinese people are, and always have been, the most demo- 
cratic, the most casteless, the most self-respecting on earth. 
And what is even Socialism? Have we not had the most 
advanced form of Anarchism, a Village Socialism, automatic, 
self-ruling, and a central government on top only to collect 
taxes and render justice? '*The heaven is high and the Emperor 
is far away.^* It was even so always. Replace the word ^^guild” 
with the word ‘‘village/’ and there you have the most advanced 
type of Socialism you want. But that, too, I give up, for aero- 
planes are making Village Socialism impossible, and the 



EPILOGUE 


341 

family solidarity and the village solidarity have been broken 
up. I cannot accept democracy in the sense of parliamentarism, 
for I know full well that a Chinese M.P. is not an M.P.; he 
cannot be if he is a Chinese, for an M.P. in China is an 
^‘official/’ too, in the most pathetic sense of the word, and we 
have too many of them, so why bother to elect them at the 
cost of five thousand dollars a ticket, for which we \rill eventually 
have to pay? 

Nor can I accept, for that matter, any ism^ for I have seen 
how foreign isms^ even the most fast-dyed and fadeless kind, 
lose colour in a Chinese laundry, and give off only a stinking 
laundry steam odour. Nor can I accept another revolution, 
for I have heard the familiar boom of guns and the racket of 
fusillades, and they have ceased to scare me now, for the boom 
of guns soon ceased and the racket that sounded like a fusillade 
seemed more and more like firecrackers in the next street, and 
I learned that it was only Mr. Yang celebrating his assumption 
of a new post. Nor can I accept Moral Uplifdsm, for I have 
had enough of it and it has ceased to amuse me. This nation 
of moral uplifters, with their eternal pagan sermonizing for 
two thousand years, has not yet r^cued itself from rampant 
oflScial corruption and heartless oppression of the people. 
Besides, the moral uplifter, as I have pointed out, is a selfish 
man, not only because he wants to uplift other people’s morality 
but because he is avoiding going to jail himself. He would 
have to go to jail if he stopped preaching moral uplift and 
began tahdng a government by law. The moral uplifter erects 
a pailou in honour of other moral uplifters after their death, if 
they turn out to be gendemen, but ineritably fails to send other 
moral uplifters to prison if they turn out, as most of them do, 
to be thieves. And what he does not do unto others he does 
not want done imto himself. Therein lie the gaiety and pleasant- 
ness of Moral Upliftism. 

Meanwhile the coimtry must live; it cannot be allowed to 
sink lower and lower under foreign domination. A temporary 
national extinction, even with eventual restoration to in- 
dependence, is cold comfort and no real consolation. The 
people are being bled white and rendered homdess, and a 
ruthless, artificial process of moral and fin an c ial ntinatk^ of 



34^2 COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the Chinee countryside is going on at a gallop. Some way 
out must be found. If this great and fine people, with their 
indomitable industry and good humour, who only want peace 
and security, could only be let alone, free from the grip of the 
octopus ^Militarism, they would know how to save themselves. 
But who would free them from the octopus? Who would bell 
the cat? I asked myself this and turned back in despair. . . . 

At last I thought of the Great Executioner, and the moment 
I saw him in my \ision I knew he would save China. Here 
comes the Sa\iour, he with the great sword that would only 
obey Dame Justice’s command, and that no one else could 
puli out of its place without her bidding, the sword that was 
drowned in a lake centuries ago. That lake where so many of 
the ofiScials’ heads should peacefully lie in, but where the 
sword is sunk now. The Great Executioner comes, and pulls 
that sword out of the deep, and he is preceded by drum-bo3rs 
in blue uniform. Dum — Dum — Dum! the procession comes, and 
the trumpeters in yellow uniform proclaim the rule of the 
law. Dum — Dum — Dum! the procession comes from the country, 
approaching the town and down the main streets, and at the 
distant rumble of the drums and the sight of the banner, with 
Dame Justice sitting in state, and the Great Executioner with 
the gleaming sw^ord by her side, the people cheer, but the 
mayor and the town councillors run away higgledy-piggledy 
and hide themselves. For behold, here the Saviour comes! 
The Great Executioner nails the banner of Justice on the city 
wall, and makes every one of them bow before it as they pass. 
And a notice is posted all over the city that whosoever says 
he is above the law and refuses to bow before the baimer wUl 
be beheaded and his head will be thrown into the lake where 
the sword was sunk for so many hundreds of years. And he 
goes into the city temple and throws out their goddesses, whose 
names are Face, Fate and Favour, and converts it into a House 
of Justice. To this place he herds together the priests and 
councillors who ruled the city under their goddesses’ names, 
and with the great sword he chops off their heads and commands 
that they be thrown, together with their goddesses, into the 
lake. For Face, Fate and Favour have plotted against Justice, 
and she hates them with the jealousy of a woman. And of 



EPILOGUE 


343 

those whose heads the Great Executioner chops off great is 
the number, many of them from distinguished families, and the 
lake is dyed red with their blood of iniquity. And, strange to 
say, in three days the relatives of the distinguished families 
who have robbed and betrayed the people behave like noble 
gentlemen, and the people are at last let alone to live in peace 
and security and the city prospei^. 

So, in my mind, I pictured the Sa\iour of China. I would believe 
in a revolution, any revolution, and in a party, any party, that 
would replace the present government by Face, Fate and Favour 
by a government by law. These three have made the rule of 
Justice and the weeding out of official corruption impossible. 
The only reason why official corruption remains is that we 
have never shot the officials, not one of them. We couldn’t so 
long as these three goddesses still remain. The only way to 
deal with corruption in the officials is just to shoot them. The 
matter is really as simple as that. And democracy is an easy 
thing when we can impeach an official for breaking the law 
with a chance of w^inning the case. The people do not have to 
be trained for democracy, they will fall into it. WTicn the 
officials are democratic enough to appear before a law court 
and answer an impeachment, the people can be made demo- 
cratic enough overnight to impeach them. Take off from the 
people the incubus of official privilege and corruption and the 
people of China will take care of themselves. For greater than 
all the other virtues is the virtue of Justice, and this is what 
China wants. This is my faith and this is my conviction, won 
from long and weary thoughts. 

That time will come, but it requires a change of ideology; 
the family-minded Chinese must be changed into social- 
minded Chinese, and the pet ideas, age-old, of face, favour 
and privilege and official success and robbing the nation to 
glorify the family must be overthrown* The process will be 
slow and laborious, how slow and laborious the preceding 
study of the whole mentality and cultural tradition of the race 
has shown. But that process is already at work, invisible, 
penetrating the upper and lower social strata, and as inevitable 
as dawn. For a time yet there will still be ugliness and"p^, 
but after a while there wiU be calm and beauty and simplicity, 



344 Y COUNTRY AND MY PEOPLE 

the calm aRd beauty and simplicity which distinguished oid 
China. But more than that, there will be justice, too. To that 
people of the Land of Justice, we of the present generation 
shall seem but like children of the twilight. I ask for patience 
from the friends of China, not from my countrymen, for they 
have too much of it. And I ask for hope from my country- 
men, for to hope is to live. 



APPENDICES 




APPENDIX I 


CHINESE DYNASTIES 


Name 

Dates 1 

Centuries 

{approximaie' 

(Mythical) 

2697-2206 

XXVII-XXIII 


B.C. 


Hsia 

2205-1784 



B.C. 

XXII-XIX » 

Shang (Y’in) 

1783-1123 

1 1 


B.C. 

J 

Chou 

1122-222 

xi-in 


B.C. 


Ch’in 

221-207 

endof ITI 


B.C. 


Han 

206 B.C.- 

II B.C.~A.P. II 


A.D. 219 


Wei 

220-264 

middle III 

Ch*in 

265-419 

mid. IIMV 

fSung 

ICh’i 

420-478 

479-310 

j-V-VI ( 

1 Liang 

502-556 

ICh’en 

557-5SS 

j 

Sui 

589-617 

round a.d. 600 

T'ang 

618-906 

VII-IX 


f Liang 

907-922 

( 


T*ang 

923-935 

ilfirsthalfX J 

- 

Ch’in 

936-946 


Han 

947-950 

1 \ 


Chou 

95t-959 


Sung 

960-1276 

latt^ half X- 1 

XIII 

Yfian (Mongol) 

1277-1367 

«id of XIII- 
mid.XIV 

Ming 

1368-1643 

mid. XlV-mid. 
XVII 

Ch’ing (Manchu) 
Republic 

1644-1911 

1911- 

mid. XVH-XIX 
XX 


Remarks 




Legendary | 

Together with Chou, 
called ‘'Santai*' or 
“Three Dynasties^ 

Classic period; Ch*-j 
unch'iu period 722-] 
4S1; Chankuo period' 
403-221 

Reunified China 

"‘Eastern Han” from 
A.D. 25 

Wei, "Wu and Shu 
forming the “Thrce| 
Kingdoms” from 
about A.D. 200 
“Eastern Chin” trom 
317. Barbarians’ Idng-i 
doms in North China 

304-439 

These are called “North 
and South” D^riasties 
for distinction. To- 
gether with preceding 
VVu and Eastern Ch’in, 
called “Six Dynasties/* 
a term referring to] 
southern culture 
Reunified China 

These are called “Wu- 
tai/' ca* “Five Dynas- 
ties’* for distinctioo; 
from other dynasticsj 
of the same name 
“Southern Sung” iromi 
1127 onw-ard, with! 
Northern China under] 
Manchus and Hongo]a| 
Foreign rule 

Restored to Chines^ 
rule 

Foreign rule 


347 





APPENDIX II 


A Note on the Spelling and Pronunciation of Chinese Names. 

A GREAT deal of confusion with regard to Chinese names has 
been caused by the lack of a consistent method of spelling, 
owing to the fact that some Chinese spell their surnames first 
and their personal names last (the Chinese way), and o hers 
spell their surnames last in the English fashion. Thus no one 
can tell whether one should address Chu Chin Chow as Mr. 
Chu or Mr. Chow. 

This difficulty can be easily obviated, first, by consistently 
spelling the surname first and the personal name last, and 
secondly, by sp elling the personal name, which usually consists 
of two syllables, as one bisyEabic word. There is no warrant 
for writing these two syllables separately any more than there 
is for speUing Shanghai as Shang Hai, or Kuomintang as Kuo Min 
Tang. In this book, aE such personal names are consistently 
spelt as one bisyEabic word without hyphen, as Wu Peifu, Su 
Tungp’o. This method of spelling wiE help to make the names 
more easEy recognizable. Try to speE Mussolini, Nicaragua, 
Rabindranath as Mus So Li Ni, Ni Ca Ra Gua, Ra Bin Dra Nath, 
and see the immediate loss in word-individuaEty. The mysti- 
fication of Chinese names is entirely due to our own making. 

In the pronunciation of Chinese names, the vowels a, e, i, o, 
u have their Latin values. The vowel H in tzu and ss& is pro- 
nounced with the tongue held in essentiaEy the same position 
as that for the consonants tz and s. The vowel ih in sMh, chih 
is pronounced with the tongue held in essentiaEy the same 
position as that for ch or sh. Hs comes before i and U, but for 
aE practical purposes may be pronounced just as an ordinary 
sh. 

Aspiration is an important distinction in many pairs of 
Chinese consonants, as p and p’, k and Id, Pronounce the 
aspirated p' as the p in English pem, and the imaspirated p as 
the p in English span. Likewise contrast the kmldn and sldn. 

348 



INDEX 


Abstract terms, 7S-S0 
Acting {Chuo), 246 
Actors, 246 
“Acts of God/* 102 
jEsthetic enjoyment, 94 
^Esthetics, Chinese, 2 So 
African literature, translations, 266 
Agnosticism, loo-ioi 
Agricultural chilization, 34, no, 
ri3 

All Men Are Brothers, 37. 39, 48, 
212, 255, 257, 260, 261, 306 
Altitude, and art, 273, 290 
American food, 320 
literature, translations, 266, 267 
Amoy, 57, 124 
Analects, 64, 115 
Analects Fortnightly, 166, 317 
Anarchism, 340 
Ancestral spirits, 100 
Ancient scripts, 207 
Anhui, 18, 19, 187, 194, 272 
Anhui Guild, 193 

Animal forms, in architecture, 300 
in calligraphy, 278 
Animals, and Buddhism, 119 
Animism, in Chinese art, 276, 277, 
299 

Anti-Opium Bureaux, 65 
Apollonian art, Chinese, 274. 294 
Architecture, 39, 282, 294-303, 
310 

and animism, 299 
and calligraphy, 275, 296, 297 
and colour, 303 
and industridism, 296 
and nature, 295, 299 
modem, 295 
symbolism in, 300 
Western, 296 
Aristocracy, 181, xSS 
Aristophanes, 63 
Amoia, Matthew, 89 
Art, 4, X29, 271-303 
and calUgraphy, 274 
and Chinese dvilkatkm, 27* 
and dievatioa, 273. 289 
and nature, 272, 274, 292, 293 
ApdkHiian, 274 
!l^ddfaist induence, 284 
Art, criticism, 284, 285 
development 283 
emotkmin, 172 


Art, female form, 142, 143, 274 
292, 293 

Greek intiuencc, 294 
modern, zBx 
rhythm, 274 
rural ideal iu, 113 
Western, 272 
and female form, 293 
Dionysian, 274 
Western influence, 293 
Art of living, 94, 129, 130 
Artisans, 1^2 
Artistic tradirion, 2S2 
Artists, 271-274 
Astrology, 116, 213 
Astronomy. 212 
Athletics, 116 
for girls, 162 

Atmosphere, in painting, 292 
Aurelius, Marcus, 10 1 
Austrian literature, translations, 
266 

Autumn in the Han Palace, 247 

Babbitt, Irving, 102 
Back-flavour, iS 5 , 323 
Bailiff of Shtkhao, 244 
Bamboo-shoots. 321 
Bandits, 46, 67, 185, 261, 332 
Barbarians, 30, 47 
Barrie, Sir James, 52 
Beauty, 93, 276 
and poetry, 233 
and secluricm women, Z43 
of momentum, 278, 279 
Belgian literature, translatimis, 266 
BeUes*Utfres, worship of, 223 
Benevolence, no. 197 , ^0^ 
Biographies, 24, 25, 220 
Biologic interpretation of history, 50 
Birth centred, 162 
Birthdays, 164 
Bisyllabism, 208 
Blackgown Alley, 238 
Boccaccio, I2i 

Book of Changes, tiS, 131, 215 
J 3 <»* of History, 105 
Booh of Poem, 131, 132 
Book of Poetry, 64, 237 
Book of Bites, 132, 188 
Books, 306 
burning of, 208 
number d, ttt 





INDEX 


350 

Borodin, 23 
Bow-shoes, 158 
Boxing, 1 16 
Bridges, 299 
Brush writing, 275 
Buck, Pearl S., 306 
Buddhas. 116 
Buddhism, 31, 39» 52, 81, 90, 

97, 98, loi, 105, 116-125, 
204, 326, 338 
and animals, 119 
and the West, 271 
as a philosophy, 117 
as a religion, 117 
as emotional outlet, 124 
classics, 1 1 7, 1 18 
influence on art, 284 
sexual ethics, 106 
temples, 117 

Bulgarian literature, translations, 
266 

Calligraphy, 31, 75, 274-281, 284 
and animal forms, 277 
and architecture, 275, 294, 296 
and art, 274 
and nature, 277 
and painting, 275, 281 
and plant forms, 277 
animistic principle, 277 
Calm, in art, 272 
Calvinism, 106 
Canton, 117 
Cases of Paokung, 263 
Cason, Professor, 82 
Caste, 181, 188 
Censorship, 270 
Central Government, 194 
Ceremonialism, 112, 116 
Chang, 205, 206 
CVang (singing). 246 
Chang, Chihchiang, 18 
Chang Chingsheng, 162 
Changchow, 179 
Chcmgch*uan OviM, 194 
Chang Fei, 252 
Chang Hsfl, 283, 284 
Chang Kungni, 45 
Chang Menglung, 280 
CKamgshen^m, 253 
Chang Shihtsai, 147 
Chang Tai, 324 
Chang T^aiyen, 338 
Chang Tsungch'ang, 18, 197 
Chang Yi, General, 179 
Chanhuo Period. 30 
Chao Cbfln, 247 
Chao Men^, 275, 287 
Chao Wuniang, 253 


Ch'aoyun, 231 
Character, Chinese, 40, 52 
Characteristics, Chinese, 12-14, 22- 
26, 40, 41, 176, 271, 305, 327 
Characters, in Chinese writing 
206-208, 209 

Chaste widowhood, 134, 161 
Chastity, 134 
Chehfo, 37 
Chelaang, 18 
Ch'en Chiju, 114 
Ch’eng, brothers, 118 
Cheng Ch’iao, 24, 214 
Chenghsieh, 161 

Cheng Panch’iao, 34, 36, 321, 338 

Ch’en Houchu, 31, 237, 238, 242 

Ch'en Hungmu, 36 

Ch’en Tuhsiu, 161, 226 

Ch’en Yuanyiian, 154 

CWi (air, breath, spirit), 116 

Ch’i, king of, 181 

Chiang Kaishek, 18, 27, 186 

Chiao, 171 

Chieh, 105 

Chienchia, 297 

Ch’ienlung, Emperor, 39, 160, 211 
ChH fu, 151 
Chih (knowledge), iiS 
Ch’i Hsueh3dian, 18 
Child-bearing, 144 
Children, 144 
Ch’in, 107 
Emperor of, 115 
Chincking, 86 

Chin Dynasty, 17, 18, 27, 33, 47, 
1 15, 1 1 8, 135, 147, 208 
Chinese Characteristics ^ 26 
Chinese Puzzle, 8 
Chinese Symposium, 38 
Ching, 108, 205, 206 
Ch’ing D3masty, 278 
ChHng (emotion), 241 
Ching (scenery), 241 
ChinghH (Peking plays), 246 
Chinghuayuan, 260 
ChHngli, 85, 160 
ChHngming day, 124 
Ch*ingt*an, 48 
Ch’ingwen, 260 
Ch’inhuaiho, 153 
Chinhu ChHkuan, 261 
Ch^in Kwei, 252 

Chinp^inmei {Gold-Vase-Plum), rod, 
203, 255, 260, 263 
Ch’in Shao3m, 152 
Ch’in Shengt’an, 204, 306 
Ckinshih, 215 

Ch*m Shih Huang, 108, 208 
Ch’i Kauchia, 316 



INDEX 


Ch*iu Shihcliou, 144, 293 
Ckiuweikuei, 154 
Chivalry, Chinese 47, 166, 261 
Ch'iwulun, 

ChHyun Shenciung, 292 
Chochuan, 132, izo 
Chohsien, i3 
Chongs 205, 2 o 5 

Choa D}’7iai5t\% i5, zl, 4S, 81, iiS, 
131, 209, 226 

Chou Shnjen, 227, 269, 333 
Chon Tsojen, 227, 269 
Christianity, 98 99, loi, 102 
and immortality^ 96 
ethics, 101, 102" 
in China, 53. S7, 9S. 117 
Ch*u, 18, 30, 1 12 
Ch*uan, 108 
Ch'uanchi, 247 

Chuangtse, 62, Si, S3, 112, 204 

Chn Chhnsheng, 214 

Chu Hsi, 36, 150, 216 

Chn Hungwn, 18 

Chiijen, 213, 216 

Chuko Liang, 24S, 252, 30X 

Ck’unchHu Pericxi, 30 

Ckmg (Middle), 297 

CkuHgko, 105 

Chung Yung, 107 

Chuo, 246 

Chusheng (students), 216 
Chiissu, X18 
Chu the Pig, 262 
Ch'ii Yiian, 241, 337 
Civic consciousness, 164 
Civil rights, 196 

Civil service system, 170, 174, 182 
Civil wars, 57, 67, 191, 224, 331, 340 
Civilkation, see Culture, Chinese 
Clarissa Marlowe, 39 
Classes, 33, 1S0-183 
privilege, 177 

C^sic of Filial Piety, 169, 171 
Classicism, izi 
Classics, 213 
Clemenceau, 57 
Co-education, r6i 
Collected Works, 213, 221 
Colleges, 215-218 
Colour, and architecture, 303 
Common sense, 59* 63, 76, 83, 84, 
86, 95, 100, 103, 326 
religion of, 86, 95, 102 
Communal government, 194 
Communism, 71, 107, 173, 185, 264, 
268 

Communist Party, 162 
Coiicepticm, in painting, 288 
Omcubinage, 136, 152, 155-157 


351 

i Concubinage disappearance of, 162 
Confucian Temple, Nanking, 153 
Confuuamani, 36, 52, 53/ 

61, 9O-T01. 1^3, 10,5, ID9. 
115. 11-, 177 
and favour, 1*5 
and succe'5^5, 52. iii 
and the West, 271 
and ^ omen, i3i'“X35 
certmcniaiism, 112, 116 

j classicism nr 

' Doctnne of Socio! status, 1^*9, 177, 
iSi, 1S6, 1S9 

ttzic:% 45 

. ‘'man-eating religion,” 161 

reIig:oa oi names, X70 
I restoration of, 197, 270 

1 soedai system, 172 

J urban pbdos*ophy, no 

Confucius, 33. 39. 40, 52, 64, 6S, 73, 

: ^9. 97» 99. 315. 333* 

170,171, 181. 1.^5, 199. 334 
classics, 30, 20S 
< deif\*ing of, 100 

i family, 181 

1 political thinker, 201 

Conjectures on Orii,d»a» Componiiont 
204 

Conservatism, 41, 42, 6S-72 
Constitution, 196 

Constitutional protection, 43, 45, 
48. 187, 200, 201 
Constitutionalists, 70 
Contentment, 41, 5S-62 
Contraceptives, 162 
Cooking, 319 

Corruption, 172-177, 186, 193, 330. 
343 

Cosmogony, 116 
Costumes, see Dress 
Courtesans, 1 52-1 57 
Courtesy, 167, 174 
Courtship, 148-152 
Cowardice, 56, 78 
Crooks, 198, 202 
Cuisine, 319 

Culinary art, national. 320 
CulturaS homogeneity, 16 
stability, 32-37 
stagnation, 38 

Culture, Chinese, 12-14. 22, 30, 37, 
40-68, X29, 171 
and the W^t, 271 
modem 336 

Culture, Western, 12-14, 129 
Customs, 40, 72. 1 72-177 
Cycles, of history, 26-30 
Czechoslovakian literature, traxiala* 
tions. 266 



INDEX 


352 

Dairen, 200 
Dancing, 162 
Dangbters-in-law, 141 
Death, 95, 96, 97, no, iii, 326 
Deep-breathing, 116 
Defeatism, 63 
Degeneration, 22-26 
Deification. 100 
Demeter, 102 
Democracy, 340, 343 
Dewey, John, 338 
Dialects, 16 
Diogenes, 60 

IMonysian Art, Western, 274 
in China, 293 
Divorce, 156 

Doctrine of Reciprocity, 172 
of Redemption ,101 
of Social Status, 169, 177, 181, 
186, 1 88, 189 

of the Golden Mean, 86. 95, 
103-109, 120, 121, 289 
of Transmigration, 119 
Double sex standard, 161 
Dragon, 301 
Dramas, 203, 244-255 
and moral ide^, 252 
and the Masses, 247 
in Chinese life, 251 
Dramatic poetry, 249 
Dresden Gallery, 143 
Dress, 71 

of women, 143, 308 
Western, 162 

Drinking, 307, 317, 323-325 
Drinking Alone under ike Moon, 

239 

•'Dnmken style,” 285 
"Dry-vine” style, 277 
Duncan, Isadora, 146, 231 
Dynamic beauty, 279 
Dyoasties, 347 

Earth, 87. to2 
Eastern Chin, 31 
Eating, 317-325 
Econotnic inequality, 184 
interpretation of history, 51 
pressure, 44, 135 

Education, 73, 166, 171, 182, 

230 

classical, 103 
modem, 217 
of women, 142, 146-148 
old, 217 
Western, 73 

•*Eight-l^ed essay,” 213 
in poobry, 241 


Elevation, and art, 273, 289 
Ellis, Havelock, 38, 106, 152 
Emancipation, of women, 161-163 
Emotion, 241 
and poetry, 231, 241 
and thought, 241 , 
in art, 272 

Empress Dowager, 137, 138 
End of life, 95, 326-329 
Endurance, 25, 327 
English food, 319 
language, 77 

literature, translations, 266 
Englishmen, in China, 7 
Environment, 44 
Environment and Race, 38 
Epic, 39 

Equal inheritance, 162 
Equality, 177-180 
of women, 140, 144 
Essays, 204, 221 
Ethics, 98, 100 
European, 100 
Ethnology, 17, 31, 38 
Europe, and tolerance, 55 
European languages, 205 
literature, 267 
politics, 71 

Europeanization of Chinese, 80, 227 
Examination system, 33, 73, 178, 
204, 215, 217, 228 
Extortion, 44 
Extraterritorial rights, 70 

Face, 167, 184, 185. 187, 189, 342 
Fachia, 196 

Family consciousness, 164, 176, 343 
integrity, 36, 169 
life, 41, 96 

Fannly system, 32, 36, 37, 114, 164, 
168-172, 340 

and marriage, 132, 141, 156, 168 
and patience, 42 
and Village system, 193 
as social unit, 182 
effect on character, 169 
Famine relief, 65 
Fan Chungyen, 36 
Fang Hsien, 160 
Fan Uaol, 179 
Fanyu, 332 

Farcied view of life, 64 
Farmers, 182 
Fascism, 107, 265 
Fatalism, 41, 189 
Fate, 185, 186, 189, 342 
Favour, 167, 170, 185, 187, 342 
Fecundity, 41. 42 



INDEX 


353 


Feipo, 287 

Feniale form, in art, 142, 274, 2011 
in Chinese art, 143 
worship of, 294 
Female Triad, i £6-193 
Femininity, of Chinese mind, 76-So 

231 

Fen (duty), 169 

Fengchieh, 25S, 259 

Feng, Hsiaoch’ing, 152 

Fengshenpang, 257 

Fengyang, iS 

Feng Ylihsiang, iS 

'*Ferry of the Jealous Woman,’* 136 

Festivals, 164 

Feudalism, 107, 331 

*Tighting.snakes’* style, 277 

Filial piety, 171 

Finesse, 305 

Finnish literature, translations 266 
Fire, 87 

Five Classics » 216 
Five Elements, 87, 1 16 
Five human relationships, 170, 172, 
tl 7 » 185 

Flexner, Abraham, 82 
Floods, 301 
relief, 65 

Folklore, 252, 261 
Folksongs, 65 
Food, 307, 317-326 
American, 320 
English, 319 
French, 319 
German. 320 
in literature, 319, 320 
Western, 323 
Footbinding, 158-161 
condemned, 160 
missionary influence, 161 
prohibited. 160 
Foreign concessions, 66, 70 
correspondents, 224 
dominatioa, 341 
isms, 341 
settlements, 70 
Four-six style, 219 
**Four virtues,” 134 
Fcmskeng Lincki, 312 
Foyin. 118 
IPriimework, 297 
France, 57 
food, 319 

literature, translations, 266 
Freud, 105 
Fri^idship, 307 
Frugality, 41 
Fu , 219 


Fukien, 179 
Southern, 137, 15S, 332 
Funerals, 65, 168 

Games, Chinese, i5| 

’ Garden-horrAe, 3:1 

GaTdcn*^, 305, 307 310-317 
3-3, 300 

Gentry cIa5..Ti, 1-^3^ 155 
, GeDniaiic\7 stSithetic^ cf, 30 j, 302 
Germanic language, 206 
1 Germany, 57 
f.jod, 3*0 

; Germany, literature, translatiom, 
. 266, 267 

; Ghosts, female, 90 

I Gilbert, Rodney, 11 

> Giles, i^of, H/A., 90 
Gtnseng, 317 
; Gold, £7 

) Gold*Vasf^Plum, iof>, 203, 2^5?, 
! ^ 260. 263 

I ‘'Golden lilies/’ 159 
J Golden Mean, 86, 95, 103-109, 120, 

! 

Goodwill tax, 225 
Government, 129, 167, iSi, 195 
by face, 193 

by face, fate and favour, 342 
by gentlemen, loS, 174, 18S, 
196-202 

by law. 107, 193, 196, 197, 342 
corruption, 172-180, 186. 193. 

331.34^ 

tats $e i pair e, zii 
modem. 333 
Old China, 333 
personal, 108, 1S6, 196 
village system. 193-196 
Graft, 173 

Grammar, Chinese, 77 

Graneries, 193 

Grand Caual, 27 

Gratitude, 167, 1S6 

Great Affiimation, no 

Great Executioner, 342 

Greaf Learnings 40 

Great Negation, no 

Great Wail, 27. roS, 252 

Greek influence, in Art. 294 

Greek literature, translaticms, 266 

"Green forests,” 261 

Gfowtk and Structure of Ei^Ush, 77 

Guilds, 167, 193. 340 

Hair, 24 

Hail of Longmify, 253 

Han DvtifflvHo' »« - 



INDEX 


352 


Dairen, 200 
Dancing, 162 
Daughters-in-law, 141 
Death, 95, 96, 97. no, iii, 326 
Deep-breathing, 116 
Defeatism, 63 
Degeneration, 22-26 
Deification, 100 
Demeter, 102 
Democracy, 340, 343 
Dewey, John, 338 
Dialecte, 16 
Diogenes, 60 

Dionysian Art, Western, 274 
in China, 293 
Divorce, 156 

Doctrine of Reciprocity, 172 
of Redemption ,101 
of Social Status, 169, 177, 181, 
186, 188, 189 

of the Golden Mean, 86, 95, 
103-109, 120, 121, 289 
of Transmigration, 119 
Double sex standard, 161 
Dragon, 301 
Dramas, 203, 244-255 
and moral ideals, 252 
and the Masses, 247 
in Chinese life, 251 
Dramatic poetry, 249 
Dresden Gallery, 143 
Dress, 71 

of women, 143, 308 
Western, 162 

Drinking, 307, 317, 323-325 
Drinking Alone under the Moon, 

239 

"Dronken style,” 285 
^TDry-vine” style, 277 
3 >xmcan, Isadora, 146, 231 
Dynamic beauty, 279 
D3masties, 347 

Earth, 87, 102 
Eastern Chin, 31 
Eating, 317-325 
Economic inequality, 184 
interpretation of history, 51 
pressure, 44, 135 

Education, 73, 166, 171, 182, 

230 

eiasdcal, 103 
modem, 217 
of womm, 142, 146-148 
old, 217 
Western, 73 

"Eight-legged e^ay,” 213 
MinfiUtiung, in poetry, 241 


Elevation, and art, 273, 289 
Ellis, Havelock, 38, 106, 152 
Emancipation, of women, 161-163 
Emotion, 241 

and poetry, 231, 241 
and thought, 241 , 
in art, 272 

Empress Dowager, 137, 138 
End of life, 95, 326-329 
Endurance, 25, 327 
English food, 319 
language, 77 

literature, translations, 266 
Englishmen, in China, 7 
Environment, 44 
Environment and Race, 38 
Epic, 39 

Equal inheritance, 162 
Equality, 177-180 
of women, 140, 144 
Essays, 204, 221 
Ethics, 98, 100 
European, 100 
Ethnology, 17, 31, 38 
Europe, and tolerance, 55 
European languages, 205 
literature, 267 
politics, 71 

Europeaniration of Chinese, 80, 227 
Examination system, 33, 73, 178, 
204, 215, 217, 228 
Extortion, 44 
Extraterritorial rights, 70 

Face, 167, 184, 185, 187, 189, 342 
Fachia, 196 

Family consciousness, 164, 176, 343 
integrity, 36, 169 
life, 41, 96 

Family system, 32, 36, 37, 114, 164, 
168-172, 340 

and marriage, 132, 141, 156, 168 
and patience, 42 
and Village system, 193 
as social unit, 182 
effect on character, 169 
Famine relief, 65 
Fan Chungyen, 36 
Fang Hsien, 160 
Fan tiaol, 179 
Fanyu, 332 

Farcical view of life, 64 
Farmers, 182 
Fascism, 107, 265 
Fatalism, 41, 189 
Fate, i8$, 186, 189, 342 
Favour, 167, 170, 185, 187, 342 
Fecundity, 41, 42 



INDEX 


353 


Feipo, 2B7 

Female form, in art, 142, 274, 293 
in Chinese art, 143 
worship of, 294 
Female Triad, 1S5-193 
Femininity, of Chinese mind, 76~So, 
231 

Fen (duty), 169 

Fengchieh. 25S, 259 

Feng, Hsiaoch’ing, 152 

Fengshenpjng, 257 

Fengyang, iS 

Feng Yuh-siang, 18 

"Fer^-^ of the Jealous Woman,” 136 

Festivals, 164 

Feudalism, 107, 331 

” Fighting-snakes” style, 277 

Filial piety* 171 

Finesse, 305 

Finnish literature, translations, 266 
Fire, 87 

Five Classics, 216 
Five Elements, 87, 116 
Five human relationships, 170, 172, 
177. 185 

Flexner, Abraham, 82 
Floods, 301 
relief, 65 

Folklore, 252, 261 
Folksongs, 65 
Food, 307, 317-326 
American, 320 
English, 319 
French, 319 
German, 320 
in literature, 319, 320 
Western, 323 
Footbinding, 158-161 
condemn^, 160 
missionary inhuence, i6z 
prohibited, 160 
Foreign concessions, 66, 70 
correspondents, 224 
domination, 341 
isms, 341 
settlements, 70 
Four-six style, 219 
”Four virtues,” 134 
Fousheng Liucki, 312 
Fo3?m» 118 
Framework, 297 
France, 57 
food, 319 

literature, translations, 266 
Freud, 105 
Friendship, 307 
Frugality, 41 
Fu, 219 

Fu^tiveness, 287, 301 


Fukien, 179 
Southern. 137, 15S* 332 
Funcrais, 65, ihd 

Games, Chinese, 164 
Garden-home, 31 1 
Gardens, 305, 307, 7 

Geniality, 305, 5V/J 
Gentn,’ class, 1S3, 1S5 
Gecmancy, aesthetics cf, 301, 302 
Germanic language, 206 
■ Germany^ 57 ’ 
fcod, 32a 

Oermuny, literature, triniUtions, 

, 266, 267 

Ghosts, female, 90 
Gilbert, Rot-iney, n 
j Giles, Prof. H. A.. 90 
Ginseng, 317 
? Gold, h7 

j Gold- Vase-Plum, 106, 157, 203, 253, 
I 260, 263 

; ”GoIden lilies,” 159 
I Golden Mean, 86, 95, 103-109, 120, 

: 2 ig 

I Goodwill tax, 225 
j Government, 129, 167, iSi, 295 
by face, 193 

by face, fate and favour, 342 
I by gentlemen, loS, 174, 1S8, 

I 196-202 

by law, 107, 193* I 97 » 34 ^ 

corruption, 172-1 So, 186, 193, 

33 t. 342 
laissez faife, ill 
modem, 333 
Old China, 333 
p^sonal, ro8, 186. 196 
village system, 3t93-J96 
Graft. 173 

Grammar, Chinese, 77 

Graneiies, 193 

Grand Canal, 27 

Gratitude, 167, 186 

Great Af&rmation, i xo 

Great Executioner, 341 

Great learning, 40 

Great Negation, 1 10 

Great Wall, 27, 108, 232 

Greek inEuence, in Art, 294 

Greek literature, tramlations, 266 

”Green forests,” 261 

Growth and Structure of FmgUsk, 77 

Guilds, 167, 193, 340 

Hair, 24 

HaU of Longevity, 25$ ^ ^ 

Han Dynasty, iS, 33* 

1x6, X34, 144. * 47 . ^ 7 ® 



INDEX 


354 

Hanfeitse, 64, 81, 170, 196, 197* 
19S, 201, 202 
Han Fuchii, General, 331 
Hangchow. 117 
HanghungcKiu, 247 
Hankow, 17, 332 
Hankukuan Pass, 51, 112 
HanHn, 215 
Hanshan, 241 
Hanyang, 57, 58 

Han Yii, 80, 89, 134, 226, 285, 337 
Haqfang poetry, 241 
Haohsieh, 47, 166 
Happiness, 59, 103, 115 
Harmony, in Art, 272 
Hart, Sir Robert, ii 
Heathens, 167 
Hebrew religion, 99 
notion of sin, loi 
Heilungkiang, 173 
Higher criticism, 84 
History, 27-30, 212 

biologic interpretation, 51 
cycles, 27-30 

economic interpretation, 51 
in dramas, 251 
political, 28 
Hitler, 57 

Homes, 103, 129, 137-142, 310-317 
Homonyms, 206 
Honan, 18, 19 
boxers, 17 
Jews of, 33 
Honesty, 41 
Honour, 190, 191, 202 
Hopei, iS 

Hou Ch*aochung, 220 
Houses, 295, 297, 307, 3 10-31 7 
modem, 31 1 
Western influence, 31 1 
Hsi, 245 

Hsia Erhming, 255 
Hsiangyfln, 2^ 

Hsiao, 1 71 
Hsiaoking, 169, 171 
Hsiaop*inwen, 306 
Hsiao Shihwei, 94 
Hsiaofiao, 249 
Haieh family, 238 
Hsieh Fangteh, 243 
Haeh Ho, 284, 291 
Hsieh Iing3rfln, 235, 241 
Hsi^ Taoyiin, 147 
Hsiohyi, 2 88 
Hsdenfcng, Emperor, 139 
Hsihsiang, 247, 250, 253 
Hsijen, 2^ 

Hsimi (operamania), 248 
H^n (mind), zx8 


Hsin Ch'ichi, 329 
Using, 1 18, 131, 237, 286 
Hsingling, 226 
Hsiuts*ai (B.A.), 2x6 
Hsiyuchi, 39, 260, 261 
Hsiiantsang, 262 
Hsuchow, 18 
Hsiieh Jenkwei, 252 
Hsueh T’ao, 154 
Hsiieh Tingshan, 252 
Hsii Pingch'ang, Prof., 333 
HuachH, 64 
Huainantse, 81, 115 
Huangch’ing Chingchieh, 215 
Huangchin Rebellion, 116 
Huangliangmeng, 250 
Huangshan, 272 
Huanyuhsienchi, 255 
Huei Shih, 81 

Huichung, Emperor, 31, 289 
Human form, 142, 274, 293 
in Chinese Art, 293 
influence of West, 294 
Humanism, 53, 68, 95-97* 100, 103 
177, 307 
Humility, 334 
Humour, 41, 62-68 
in literature, 67 
Hunan, 19 
people, 18 

^'Hundred patience,*' 45 
Hungarian literature, translations, 
266 

Hunghsiieh, 260 
Hupeh, 173 
people, 17 

Hu Shih, Dr., 21, 70, 161, 226, 227, 
255. 269. 333, 338 
Hweiwei, 288 
Hygiene, 116 

Idealism, 50, 51 
Ideographs, 206 
Idiomatic Chinese, 209 
Imag^, 78-80, 230, 231, 277 
Imagination, 89-94 

tales of, 39, 90, 203, 244^ 261 
Immaturity, 338 

Immortality, 96, 97, no, iii, 326 
Imperial dynasties, 17, 18 
Imperial examination system, 33, 
73, 178, 204, 215, 217, 227 
Impressionistic technique, 235, 237, 
289 

Western, 289 

“Imply banning in taxing,’* 225 
Independence, 265 
of women, 140, 144 
Independent Review, 333 



INDEX 


355 


Indian literature, traaslataons, 266 
sculpture, 31 

Indifference, 41, 45-49, 74 
survival value, 46 
Individualism, 164, 165, i6g, 173 
Indo-Germanic language, 206 
Industrialism. 107, 295 
and Art, 295 
Industry, 41, 305 
Infusion, of New Blood, 26-32 
Inging, 250, 252 
Ink-drawings, 2S7 
Intelligence, 73-76 
Internecine wars, 2S 
Intestines, and thought, 231 
Intuition, 76, S6-89 
Inventiveness, 75 

Italian literature, translations, 266 
Ito, Prince, 339 

Jacobitism, 267 
James, William, 120 
Japan, 176, 329. 339 
literature, translations, 266 
politics, 71 
Japanese, 176 
in China, 28, 117 
in Manchuria, 33 
Jazz, 249 

Jealousy, of women, 136 
Jehol. 173. 333 
Jespersen, 77 
Jesus, 99 

Jewish literature, translations, 266 
Jews, of Honan, 33 
Jih-chih 4 u^ 84 
Journalism, 165 
Joviality, 305 

Jugoslavian literature, translatiQns# 
266 

Julinwiziskih, 189, 260 

Justice, 186, 193, 202, 331, 342, 343 

K'anghsi, 38, 160 
K'ang Yuwei, 70, 33S 
Kansu, iS, roS 
Karlgren, Bernhard, 84 
Kiangpei, 332 
Kiangse, 107 
Kiangsi, 332 
Kiangsu, 18 

Kin (Manchu) kingdoms, 31 
Kindliness, 60 
Kleptomania, 173 
Kowtowing, 25 
Koxinga, 28 
Kuan Yd, 100, 252 
Kuei Yukuang, 222 
Ku Hengp'o, 155 


Ku Hnngming. 157, 173 
Ku K'akhih,"2S3, 293 
Kung-an SchfX>I,' 226 
K’ungrh'tngcki. 24 S 
K'ungitnt, 2 SS, 25^9 
Kuncmin republic citizen’ 200 
Kungvan Lung, Si 
Kung Ting-an’ 222 
Kunryan^ckiian, 213 
Kuo 'state', 164 
Kuorhia (state- family), 164 
Kuominung, € 6 , 162. 1-S5, 268 
agrarian programme, 65 
Kup'ij, 114 

Ku Yenwu, 24, 84, 214, 216 
Kwangsi, 131 
Kwangtung, 17, 332 
K'u'eissit Leik'ao, 06 
Kweiyuan, 151 

Lacquer, 3S 
Laissei 

Landscape painting, 233, 292, 293 
Western, 293 
Language, Chinese, 77 
and poetry, 231 
and thought, 205-210 
literary, 79, 206, 209, 210, 220 
Northern, 19-21 
Southern, 19-21 

spoken. 16, 206, 209, 210, 226, 264 
vernacular, 220, 226, 244, 249, 

255 

written, 16, 206, 274-281 
I^guages, 77, 206 
English, 77 
European, 205 
Germanic, 206 

Laotse. 39, 50. 51. 59* 65, no. 

H2, 188 

Latvian literature, translatiooa, 
Law courts, 179, 1S7, 193, 194 
lAziness tax, 225, 332 
Leadership. 73, 33^-34*^ 

League of Nations, 4 
Learning, respect for, 73 
Western, 73 
Lee, Dt. J, S., 27 

Leg^ protection. 44, 46, 49, 1B7, 
191, 200 

Legalist School 196 

Legends, 1x4 
Leisure, 6x, 63, 129, 304 
L,eisure class, 182 
Letter-papers, 272. 305-306 
Lettes, of scholars, 64 
£1, 118. 286 

Liang Ch’ich^ao. 70. *27 
Liang Suming, Pn^essor, 1x3 



INDEX 


356 

Liang Wuti, 31 
Liaotsait 260 
liberty, 265 
Libraries, Chinese, 21 1 
classification system, 213 
li Ch’angchi, 241 
li Ch'ingchao, 147, 241 
Li Chinglin, 18 
Liehtse, 81 

Life, end of, 95, 326-329 
meaning of, 95, 324-329 
pleasures of, 304-310 
rural ideal of, 34, no, 113 
Life of Mr. Wu Liu {Five Willows)^ 
22 X 

Li Ho, 241 

li Hsiangchiin, 154, 155, 220 
Lihsueh, 1 1 8 , 215 
Li Himgchang, 24 
Li Jihhua, 273 
li Juchen, 160 

Li Liweng, 94, 161, 222, 235, 300, 
307, 314, 320, 321 
Lin Poshui, 46 

Li Po. 64, 233. 238, 242, 260, 284* 

287, 337 

lipton's tea, 325 
liquor, 323 
Li Shangyin, 341 
Lisku, 287 
Li-Shu style. 278 
Li Ssfihsfin, 283, 284 
literary criticism, 31, 79, 264, 284 
heritage, 205 
history, 30, 31 

language, 79, 206, 209, 210, 220 
terse style, 210-225 
malpractice, 223-225 
men's painting, 285 
nation, 74, 264 
radicalism, 70, 267 
revolution, 226-228, 267 
vrrangler, 178 

Literature, 4, 25, 30, 39, 75, 83, 
129, 213 

and politics, 223-225, 265 
changes in, 226-228, 264, 267 
classical, x6, 219 
distinction of, 203-205 
for pl^Lsure, 203 
hnmorons, 63 
instructive, 203 
iyncal origin, 204-205 
modem, 264-270 
of ideas, 203-204 
of imagination^39,9X* 203, 244, 261 
rural ideal in, X13 
Western, translations in Chinese, 
266-270 


Li Tziich'eng, 153 
Liu Chungyiian, 285, 337 
Liu Hsiang, 134 
liu Jushih, 154, 155 
Liu Ling, 48 
Liu Pei, 252 
Liu Powen, 257 
Liu Poyii, 136 
Liu Yuhsi, 234, 236, 237 
Living, art, of, 94, 129, 130, 304 ff, 
326 

standard of, 58 
Li Yuanhung, 50 
Local rich, 184 
Logic, 76, 83-86 
Lo Kuanchung, 255 
“long-term resistance,” 225 
Love, 148-152 
songs, 151 

Loyalty, of women, 134 
Loyang, 225 
Liianchia Rapids, 236 
Lu Chiuyen, 118 
Lu Chunglin, 18 
Lu Liching, 119 
Lun, 177 

Lunghai Railway, 18 
Lungmen, 284 
Ln Shen, 60 
Lusin, see Chou Shnjen 
Ln Yunghsiang, 18 
Lyricism, 282 

Ma Chihyuan, 250 
Madame Chuang*s Inconstancy and 
Other Tales, 261 
Magazines, 75 
Magic, 1 10, III 
Magic of Common Sense, X04 
Magistrates, 185 
Mahjong, 165 
Ma Hsianglan, 154 
Male progeny, 156 
Male Triad, 183-185 
Manchn Dynasty, 28, 31, 39, 70, 
119, 154, 160, 211, 2x4, 
338 

descendants, x8x 
founding of, X54 
government, 331 
Manchuria, x6, 33 
Mandarin, 232 
Mandarin ducks, 300 
“Man-eating religion,” 135, X69 
Manners, 172-177 
Mao Pichiang, X53, X55 
Marriage, 132, X37-X42 
and family system, r4X, X57 x68 



INDE3C 


357 


Marriage, and coacabiaage, 156 
in the West, 156, 157 
Mass education movement, 166 
Matriarchal system, 131 
Ma Tuaalin, 214 
Maugham, Somerset, 182 
May Fourth Movement, i6j 
Meaning, of life, 95, 324-329 
Medicine, 87, 116, 213, 271, 307 
Meekness, 334 
Mei Lanfang, 246 
Mellowness, 40-43 
Mencius, 50, 73, 102, 105, iSo, 330 
Mengchiangnti, 252 
Meng Haojan, 241 
Mental hygiene, 98 
Merchants, 182 
Miaofengshan, 124 
Miaoyii, 259 
“Middle Kingdom/* 105 
Middlemarch, 85 
Mi Fei, 285, 286 
Militarism, 339, 342 
abolition o£, 335 

Militarists, 173, 174, 179. 191, 198 
Mincing words, 210, 224 
Ming (name), 169 
Ming (predestination), ii8 
Mingchiao, 169 

Ming Dynasty, 18, 28, 39, 119, 135, 
144, 153, 154. 155, 257* 
novels, 65 

Mingfen (status), 169 
Min Tzh, 252 
Mission to Heaven, 261 
Missionaries, 67, 161, 167 
schools, 67 
Mi Yiijen, 285, 292 
Moderation, 104, 327 
Modem scripts, 208 
Modernization, of China, 70, 331, 
334 

Mohsi, 286 

Mongol Dynasty, 31, 39, I35 
drama, 31 
music, 31 
Mongolians, 26, 28 
Honk Sand, 262 
Honks, I2X 
Monogamy, 156 
Monosyllabism, 205, 210, 224 
Moon PaviHon, 248 
Moral philosophy, i7o~X7z 
platitudes, So 
reforms, 197 
Dpliftism, 341 
Morse, H. D., n 
Motherhood, 144 
Motse, 8z, Z06 


Mountains, 125, 292, 301, 302 
and art, 272 
Mourning, 112, 133, x6i 
MotUanftng, 252 
Movie stars, influence of, 163 
Mulien, 252 
Music, 251 

in Chinese drama, 245 
Xorthem, 19-21 
of courtesans, 153 
rhythm, 250 
Southern, 19-21 
Mystic Rehgjon, 116 
Mysticism, 115 

Xalan Hsingteh, 242 
Names, pronunciation of, 348 
spelling of, 34 S 

Nanking, 2S, 67, 117, 154, 215, 237 
Government, 26$ 

Nant’ang Houchu, 31, 15S 
National Covemmeat, 333 
National Museum, Peiping, 174, 
333 

National University, Peiping 162 
Nationalism, 106, 176 
Nationalist revolution of 1926-7, 
162, 268 

Naturalism, 102, iii 
Nature. 34, 94. iC2. 114 
and architecture, 294. 299 
and art. 272. 274, 292, 293 
and calligraphy, 276 
and poetry, 229, 240 
love of, 41, 242, 292, 328 
Nepotism, 170, 1 72-177 
“New Bride.’* 142 
New Life Movement, 65 
Newspapers, Chinese, 165 
women’s supplements, 162 
Nietzsche, 11 1 

“Night Promenade at Ch'engt’ieo* 
62 

Nins-Tailed Tortoise, 154 
Nineteenth Route Army, 340 
Ningpo Gmid, 194 
Nirvana, 96, 105 
Ni Ytinlin, 287, 29a, 3x4 
Kola Kotuhutu, 117 
Kon-Yamcn cIm, 180 
North China. 47 

history, 28, 29 
invasion, 30 
language, 19-21 
music, f9-2X 
people, x6, 17, 18, ax, 31 

Nort^^kinaDaiUy Nem, 7, 8 
Northern dramas, 247 



INDEX 


358 

Northern Sung D37nasty, 337 
Northern Wei, 284 
Northern Wei Dynasty, 31, 117 
Norwegian literature, translations, 
266 

Notebooks, 65, 84, 86, 211, 212, 217 
Novels, 39, 64, 99, 120, 203, 227, 
255-263 
length of, 263 
of chivalry, 261 
of social manners, 260 
of supernatural beings, 261 
similarity to Russian, 263 
Nudity, 162 
Nuns, 1 21 
Nuwo, 256 

Obedience, of women, 134 

Ode to the Goddess of River Lo^ 136 

Ofangktmg, 27 

Offic&ils, corruption, 167, 172-180, 
193* 200, 330, 343 
overeating, 322 
respect for, 178 
Old age. 5, 51, 177, 326 
*‘ 01 d Buddha,*' 116 
Old China, 331, 333, 340 
Old China Hand, 7, 8 
Old roguery, 41, 43, 49-54, 63, 74 
Omar Khayyim, 62, 130, 307 
Omei Mountains, 272 
On a Chinese Screen, 182 
On a Painting of Chinling, 237 
Opera, Chinese, see Drama 
Opera, Western, 247 
Operamania, 248 
Opium, 196, 225, 332, 333 
Orchid-petaJ line, 283 
Oriental philosophy, 56 
Orphanages, 193 

Bacifism, 41, 54, 58, 74, 327 
I^ganism, 102 - 

Painter-scholars, 286 
Painters, Chinese, 272 
Painting, 31, 38, 74, 94, g8, 113, 
272, 281-294 
and calligraphy, 275, 282 
and poetry, 229, 233, 282 
development, 283 
lyricism, 281 
of couTtesaus, 153 
Western, 281 
PmyMi^ing, 248 
Pan Ch*ao, 134 
Paachen I ^ ma of Thibet, 117 
P*an Chinlien, 157 
Baathdsm, 102, 230, 301 
207 


P’ao, 207 
Paokung An, 263 
Poo Shenpo, 2S7 
Paots'a, 259, 260 
PaoyU, 99, 15 1, 259 
Parallel style, 219 
Parental government, 108, 196 
Passive resistance, 112 
Pastoral poets, 235, 242 
Pater, Walter, 232 
Patience, 41, 42, 43, 333 
Pauline theology, loi 
Peace, 331 
Peaceableness, 60 
Pehhua, 220, 227, 244, 250, 255 
Peihsien, 18 

Peiping (Peking), 28, 30, 57, 117, 

XT 299, 331 

National Museum, 174, 333 
National University, 162 
Peking, see Peiping 
Peking plays, 246 
Peony Pavilion, 252 
''Periodic Recurrence of Internecine 
Wars in China," 27 
Persian literature, translations, 266 
Personal government, 186, 196 
rights, protection of, 43, 45, 46, 
49, 186, 1 91, 200 
Perspective, 289 
in poetry, 233 
Ph.D.s, 215 

Philanthropy, 167, 193 
Philology, 81 
Philosophers, 80, 81 
Philosophy, 4, 56, 212, 271 
Phonetic combinations, 206 
Physical characteristics, 17, 22-26, 
271 

Physiology, 87, 116 
Pichi (Notebooks), 64, 84, 86, 212, 
213, 217 

Pictographs, 206 

Pidgin English, 7, 77, 97, 112 

P^ienfi, 219 

"Pine-branch" style, 277 
P'ing, 231 

PHnhua Paochien, 203 
P*ip*achi, 248, 252 
Pm, 288 

"Blan for Huangho Consmrvancy,** 
203 

Plant forms, in architecture, 300 
in calligraphy, 278 
"Play with ink," 286 
Plays, see Drama 
Pleasures of life, 304-3 ip 
"Pl^iade of the Bamb^ Grove,** 48 
Hum blo^ozns, 278, 295 



INDEX 


3 . 


Po Chuyi, 152, 257, 241. 243, 285 
Poetry, 30, 75, 94, 98. 113, 203. 

228-244 

and artistic genius, 230 
and beauty, 233 
and Chinese language, 231 
and emotion, 231, 241 
and nature, 239 

and painting, 229, 233, zSS, 292 
and religion, 229 
Einfuklung, 24X 
Haofang, 241 

impressionistic technique, 235 
in Chinese life, 22S 
in dramas, 249 
Northern, 19-21 
of courtesans, 153 
of women, 147 
pantheistic, Z02 
rh3rthm, 251 
sensual, 159 
Southern, 19-21 
suggestion, 236 
Taoistic, 52 
Wangvueh, 241 
Po-ien, 45 

Polish literature, translations, 266 
Political corruption, 167, 1 72-177, 
198, 201, 335 
history, 28 
immaturity, 338 
life, 164-202 
philosophy, 50 
programmefi, 66 
Politics, 164 

and literature, 223-225 
Polyandry, 158 
Pootoo Islands, 124 
Population, 4, 30, 44 
Porcelains, 38, 113, 329 
Pornographic novels, 203, 261 
Portuguese sailors* tales, 10 
Posture, 279 
Premarital love, 149 
Primitive habits, 34 
Prince of CaBigraphists. ses Wang 
Hsichih 
Printing, 38 

Privilege, 167, 177-180, 343 
Pronunciation, 34S 
Prose, 219-223 

singing of, 219, 231 
Prosody, Chinese, 231 
Proverbs, 45, 49* 79 

Provincialism, 193 
Public citizens, 200 
Pygmoiien, loS 

Qua^miu on Sunday Moods, 239 


Racial degeneration, 22-2O 
differences, 17 
infusiotJ, 26-32 
pride, 68 
stamina, 27, 32 
survival, 22, 27, 32 
tradition, 59, 72 
youth, 37-39 

Ratiical, in Chinese script. 207 
Radicalism, in China, 70. 71 
Ransome, Arthur, 8 
Reactionism, 70 
Real China, 329-336 
Realism, 50, 51, 63, 99, 100, no 
Reason, 83 

Reasonableness, S5, 05, 103 
Recluse, and Taoism, ri2, 113, 286 
Recreations, 304 

Rfd Chamber Dteam. 39. *5, 139 
212, 255. 253. 259, 260. 32b 
Redemption, loi 
Redology {hunfnrM€K\ 260 
Reforms*, 64, 197, 333 
Religion, S9, 97-103, 170 
absence of, q 6. 1^4 
and poetry, 229 
of Common Sense, 95, 102 
of names, 169 

Renaissance of 1916-17, 7c, 16 r 
2G9 

Republic, 70, i6r 
Research, of scholars, 213-215 
Resistance, 27 
Restraint, 104 

Revolution, Literary*, 226-228, 266 
Revolution of 1911. 33 ^ 
Revolution of 19*6, 339 
Revolutionary literature, 268, 269 
Revolutionisii, 70 
Rhythm, 251 
in Architecture. 299 
in Art, 274 
in Poetry, 251 

Rhythmic natality, 284, 290,, 291 
Richards, Dr. Timothy, 261 
Righteousness, no, 202 
Roguery* see Old Roguery 
Romance of the Guitar ^ 248, 233 
Romantic love, 148, 155 
Romanticism, in, 229, 3^6 
Roofs, 297 
Ross, A. E.. 177 
Round bridge, 299 
‘‘Running Script/* 2S5. 287 
Rural philosophy, 34, iio, 113 
Ruskin, John, 232 
1 RusseU, Bertrand, 10, i04» 33 <» 

I Russell, Mrs. Bertrand, 60 



INDEX 


360 

Russia, 339 
literature, translations, 266, 26S- 
270 

^'Sacred and Profane Love,** 103 
Sanger, Margaret, 162 
Sanmin Doctrine, 65 
Sapir, Edward, 31 1 
Scene in Late Spring, 240 
Scenery, 241, 292 
and art, 272 
Scholars, 25, 182, 204 
college training, 215-218 
indifference of, 48-49 
poets, 228 

respect for, 73, 178, 183 
training, 213 

"Scholars* painting/* 285, 286 
Scholarship, 211-215 
worship of, 211 
Schools, 167, 193 
Science, 75, 212, 271 
lack of, 80-83 
Scientific method, 81, 82 
Script, Chinese, 205, 210, 214 
Self-expression, of women, 140, 144 
Senses, 25 
Sensuality, 41 
Sex, 294 

and religion, 121, 122 
diflferentiation, 133 
education, 162 
equality, 131, 161 
ethics, 106 

relations, 115, 132, 144 
repression, 152 
stimulation, 152 
Sex Histories, 162 
Shakespeare, William, 139 
ShangM, 66. 116, 200 
Shanghai War, 225, 340 
Shangshan, 154 
Shang Yang, 107 
Shantin Ch% 274 
Shansi, 194 
Shantung, 18 
bandits, 17 
Shao P'iaop’ing, 46 
Shen Fu, 312, 314, 315 
Shensi, 58 
^ngs, 19 
sja, 131, 279 
S^-Nai-an, 255, 257, 258 
Shm Ts ung, 136 
Skiking [Book of Poetry), 64, 237 
Shur-hua, 275 

Hm»^h*ing ChingchUh, 215 
[AU Men Are Brot^^s), 37, 
39 . 47 . 5512 . 255. 257, 260, 261, 306 


Shuipi, 84 

Shuking {Book of History), 105 
Shun, Emperor, 114 
Shun Poo, 47 

Shunp*o, 37, 38, 41, 96, 102, 1 13, 187 
Shtcowen, 214 
Shuyuan, 218 

Siamese literature, translations, 266 
Sienpei, 31 

Stoplicity, 36, 37, 3S, 41, 96, 

102 , 

113. 187 
Sinecurism, 173 
Singing [Ckang), 246 
Singing, of prose, 219 
Smg-song girls, 1 53 
Sino- Japanese War, 70 
Sinolization, 26 

Six Chapters of a Fleeting Life, 312 
Six Djmasties, 28, 31, 32 
Skin, 24 

Skyscrapers, 295 
Sleeping, art of, 310 
Smith, Arthur, 26 
Social behaviour, 186 
classes, 180-183 
consciousness, 175 
discipline, 108 
education. 171 
life, 129, 165-202 
mind, absence of, 164-167, 343 
organization, 271 
philosophy, 164, 170, 190, 343 
service, 164, 166 

status, 169, 177, 1 81, 186, 189, 
190 

Socialism, 107, 340 
Society, 129, 164-202 
Socrates, in 

Song of the Mulberry Maiden, 243 
Songs, 19-21, 64, 151 
in Chinese dramas, 244 
Soochow songs, 19 
Soong, T. V., 24 
South China, 15-21 
history, 28, 29 
language, 19-21 
music, 19-21 
people, 16, 18, 21 
poetry, 19-21 
Southern dramas, 247 
Southern School, 283, 285 
Southern Sung Dynasty, 20, 31, 32 
Spanish literature, translations, 266 
SpeUing, 348 
Spirits. 8g, no, in, 114 
Spok^ language, 16, 206, 209, 210 
as literary, medium, 226, 264 
Sport, 164 
"Squeeze/* 173 



INDEX 


361 


Ss^k*u Ch'uanshu, 173, zxz 
SsHlin, 2ig 
Ssiiliu, 31 

Ssuma Ch’ien, 24, 214, 220 
Ssuma Wenkiing, 90 
Status, 170 

Stevenson, Robert Louis, 52 
Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio, 
90, 260 

Strange Things of the Last Twenty 
Years, 260 

Student Movement of 1919, 162 
Students, 215, 216 
Stupidi^, II 3 
Suggestion, in painting, 288 
in poetry, 236 
Su Hsiaohaao, 153 
Sui Dynasty, 28, 31, 21 1 
Su Manshu, 28 
Sun Ch'iiaiifang, iS 
Sung Chians. 337 

Sung Dynasty, 18, 31, 118, 158, 211, 
286, 289 

Confucianists. irS 
philosophy, 40, Si, 98 
Scholars, 134 
Sun the Monkey, 262 
Sun Yatsen, 24, 67, 70 
Superaaturalism, 100, 103, 262 
Superstition, no 
power of words, 88 
Su Tungp’o, 62, iiS, 152, 222, 231, 
285* 292> 337 
Swatow, 332 

Swedish literature, tran^tions, 266 
Swimming, for girls, 162 
Symbolism, 237 
in architecture, 300 
Syrian literature, translations, 266 
Ss^stem, lack of, 107, 108 
Szechuen, 4, 44, 223, 272, 332 
Szechuen Monthly, 332 

Tai Chit'ao, 117 
Taiping Rebellion, 28, 331 
Taiyfi, 99, 151, 259, 260 
Tale of CVienniang, 91 
Tales of imagination, 39, 90, 262 
T'anch'un, 260 

Tang Dynasty. 18, 33, 53. 9^* 3:15, 
X34. X53. 158, 21 1, 226 
poetry, 232, 237, 244, 249 
T'ang, Emperor, 105 
T’ang Kaochung, 45 
Tangku (party cases), 48 
T'ang Minghuang, 237. 283 
T’ang Yulin, General, 4, 173 
Taoism, 36. 51, 53, 82, loi, iog-ii6, 
287 


Taoism, and failure, 52, iii 
and government, 200 
and the West 271 
and tolerance. 56 
occultism, 48 
I poetry of, 52 

I recluse ideal, 1 12 

; romanticism, iii 

j rural philosophy, no 

j temples, 117 

1 view of life, 44 

TaoiehKing, 51, 112 
I T’ao Yaaaming. 64, 221, 235, 241 

! 337 

i Tartars, 2S, 33 
Taste, in China, 305 
Tat’ung, 2S4 

Tax monopoly system, 183 
Taxation, 46^ I'So, 183,, 194, 196, 
225, 331 

Taylor, Griffith, 38 
Tea-drinking, 129, 324 
Tea-houses, 324 
Temple of Heaven, 272 
Temples, 297 
Teng Shih-ju, 278 
Texture, in food, 321 
Theatres, Chinese, 245 
noise, 248 
see also Dramas 

“Thirteen Confucian Classics,” 213 
Thought, and language, 205-210 
Three Kingdoms, icx> 

Three Kingdoms, 260 
“Three ob^encet,” 134 
Thrift, 326 
Tienanmen, 299 
Ting, V. IC. 38 
Tolerance, 55, 63 
Tones, Chinese, 23 
Townsend, Dr. Charles W., 318 
Translations, in Chinese, 227, 266 
270 

Transmigratiofi. doctrine of, 119 
Travel, 169 

Triad, female, 186-193 
male, 183-185 
Trotzky, 24 
Truth, 83 
Ts’ai Yung, 253 
Ts'ao Hstiehch^in, 255, 256, 258 
Ts*ao Ts'ao, 252 
Tsaskih Piikin, 144 
Tseh, 231 

Tseng Kuofan, 19. 3 ^* 37 . 33 ^ 

Tsengtse, 169, 171 

Tuan Ch*i3m, 18, 117 

Tuan Yflts’ai, 214 

Tu Fu, 64, 239, 242, 242, 243, 284 



INDEX 


3t)2 

Tu Mu, 152, 241 
Tung Ch’ich*ang, 272, 275, 287 
T’unghsiang kuannien^ 193 
Tung Hsiaowan, 155 
Tu Shihniang, 155 
T3^anny, 44 
Tz*ii, 20, 250, 251 
Tziilu, 73 
TzGssfl, 106, 107 
TzHyehko, 20 

Uncouth Old Man*s Chats ^ 85 
Unempio5rment, 173 
Universities, American, English and 
German, 82 

Urban philosophy, no 
Utility, in architecture, 296 

Vegetarianism, 120 
Vernacular language, 220, 226, 244, 
249, 250, 255 
Versailles Treaty, 57, 161 
Village socialism, 195, 340 
Village system, 167, 193-196 
Virginity, 146 

Wanderlust, Chinese, 124 
Wang Chanyiian, General, 173 
Wang Chien, 142 
Wang Chingwei, 186, 332 
Wangch*uanchi, 235 
WangCh'ung, 220 
Wang family, 238 
Wang Hsichih, 31, 277, 279, 284, 
287 

Wang Kuowei, 338 
Wang Mochieh, see Wang Wei 
Wang Wei, 234, 235, 241, 283, 284, 
285 

Wanyueh poetry, 241 
Warlords, 67 

"Warring Kingdoms," 30, 115 
Wars, 28, 57, 67, 191, 225, 331, 340 
Water, 87 

Wates, George Frederick, 104 
Wedding processions, 66 
Weddings, 164 
Wei Chuang, 237 

Wri Dynasty, 33, 47, 115. 135, 147 

Wei lagwtt, 225, 290 

We^ Mauiame, 279 

Wei, Queen of, 132 

"Wd rubbings," 284 

Wells. H. G., 321 

Wmchemg {BeUes 4 ^res), 223 

Wen Chenming, 272 

Wenchhn, 252 

{literatme)^ 223 
Wen T'iagylin, 241 


West, and Chinese culture, 271 
and tolerance, 55 
art, 272, 274, 292 
conception of womanhood, 142 
culture, 14, 129 
ethics, 1 01 

literate, influence of, 264-270 
social life, 69 
West Lake, 154 

Exhibition Memorial, 299 
West, Mae, 162 
Western Chamber, 247, 250, 253 
Westernization, 107, 335 
White Fur-coat, 122 
Widowhood, 134, 161 
"Willows," 307 
Witchcraft, 116 
Wollstonecraft, Mary, 163 
Womanhood, Chinese conception 
of, 142 

Western conception of, 142 
Women, 129, 131-163, 307 

and art, 142, 143, 274, 292, 293 
and Confucianism, 1 31— 135 
and economic pressure, 135 
athletics, 162 
concubinage, 156-157 
deifying of, 100 
dress, 143, 309 
Western, 162 
divorce, 156—157 
education of, 142, 146-148 
emancipation of, 161-163 
ideal, 142-146 
in ci\dl service, 162 
in the home, 13 7-1 42 
inferiority of, 137 
marriage, 132, 137-142, 157, 168 
modem, 140, 144, 148, 161-163 
mourning period, 133 
newspaper supplements, 162 
poets, 147 
schools, 162, 163 
seclusion of, 121 
subjection of, 1 31-137 
Western influence on, 161 
Wofnen*s Guide, 134 
Wood, 87 

Woodhead, H. G. W., n 
Words, superstitions, of, 88 
Wordsworth, William, 94 
Writing, Chinese, 78, 205, 274- 
281 

Written language, 16, 206, 274- 
281 

Wu (Matter), iiS 
Wuchang, 188 

Wu Chiinsheng, General, 173 
Wuhou, Empress, 91 



1 NDE:% 


V;u I- ^ 

V, u i fsfn?Til, 154 

Wj: Ta^^tZii, 2^3, I '5 

Yatr.^^r: 17: 

Y.irri' ri clas^, : :r# 

Ym:;; z:Yc t.r.r.JpI?, 115, ill, 13:, 
larc i.Y'. irjj 

\Yvjz Kv,ai'ei. 237, 24i» 

■24 

Yanpste, 17, 19 
Yio. En:?rrcr 10^ zn 
Yeafhooh of Chine :e PuKi:ati:m, 
266 

Yell li, 240 

Yehsao Pjjyen, 85, 106, 11.3, 139, 
255, 262 ' 

** Yellow peril/’ 176 
Yen Chencli’ing, 2S4 
Yen Cliilit’ni, jfS 
Yen Sung, 252 
y®, 237, 501 

Yiking {Book of Changes)., xiS, 131, 


‘ IV, f 

131, 133 

E-i«ari, 204 

\ ' c- ur* s C b in 1 ^ . 2 2 “* 0 

Young Yun's i • .rf> 



II j 

'i'h.mchek. 3:1 
Yuan Critxn. : 4 i 


\ lhur.*’,Arg, 1x5 i . t ; 

Y aan 'firarr-. d5 1 1 , 1 1 4 , 2 4 : 4 9 * : i 

Yuan 4^ 

YuanMee, 247, lEo. 185 
, 33 - 

Y UOlH. SIlIilA 1*5 .24 

Yii CI;ei:gh^:eb, 137 
Yuik, if 

YnzY. :i . Errroper xt, : > , 2 i i 
Yunr^o T alien. ;n ill 
Yunnas, so, :t.. - 
Ynssu S'ihi.Xil, a?>9 
Yu Tafu 2b') 

Yu YYirn, 2S0, 2<?> 


215 

Yili, 118 


Zola, Emile, 51 



